May C. Villanueva Ma. Jelena
+852 5629 7700
A16th & 18th Floors, YL Life Tower
33 Lockhart Road, Wan Chai Hong Kong
Via Email To: polo.hongkong@yahoo.com, poea.prosecution@gmail.com, and pcc@malacanang.gov.ph


RE: Request For Assistance Regarding Agency Complaint


To Whom This May Concern,


On two separate occasions I sought assistance from POLO to file a complaint for agency overcharging. Unfortunately for unclear reasons POLO staff did not allow me to file a complaint or get my complaint notarized. When I inquired if other people from my agencies had been allowed to receive refunds I received a surprising response. I was told others have been allowed notarize their complaints but that I am not allowed to get my complaint notarized. Furthermore, some POLO staff appear to be giving different guidance to different complainaints depending upon the agency involved.[1] For example, sometimes POLO staff state that the Hong Kong agency can provide a refund, while other times POLO staff state that only the Philippines agency can provide a refund. This appears to be a divergence from past POLO policy and in contradiction to Republic Act No. 10022.


For clarification, Republic Act No. 10022 states that any individual or company who acts as an accomplice by any act of canvassing, enlisting, contracting, transporting, utilizing, hiring, or procuring workers and includes referring, contract services, promising or advertising for employment abroad, are liable for inappropriate actions that occurred throughout the recruitment and placement process. Given such, agencies in both Hong Kong and Philippines are jointly and severally liable for their actions and are both subject to providing refunds in instances of overcharging.


I would like to come to POLO this coming Sunday (21 July 2019) and be allowed to have my complaint formally notarized. Even if the policy has changed and I must get a refund in the Philippines it is important that I be allowed to notarize my complaint so that it is a permanent record and in the case of any unforeseeable circumstances, such as immediate termination, a record exist of my complaint. Rule VI of the Republic Act No. 10022 provides that victims of recruitment should be allowed to avail legal assistance and given that POLO is an extension of the POEA, I should be allowed to have my complaint notarized in Hong Kong so that I can receive the necessary legal assistance in the Philippines and have my complaint be a formal notarized record.


I kindly request that POLO staff call me at +852 5629 7700 to confirm that I will be allowed to have my complaint notarized this weekend. Furthermore, I think other victims should be allowed to notarize their complaints as well. Also, it is suspected that something went wrong because the agency did not pick me up at the airport and the employer on my contract appears to be different from the employer at my working address. Also, the agency promised me my own room and no pets but in reality the situation is different - I think the agency job order was a lie.


Sincerely Yours,
May C. Villanueva Ma. Jelena
________________
[1] It seems odd that a large proportion of overcharging victims from Angelex Allied Agency have not been allowed to notarize their complaints. This is especially concerning because Angelex Allied Agency’s POEA license is up for renewal soon and the POEA will not be able to see complaints unless they are notarized.