Complainant


Employment Agencies Administration (EAA)
Unit 906, 9/F., One Mong Kok Road Commercial Centre
1 Mong Kok Road, Kowloon
Telephone: 2115 3667
Fax: 2115 3756
Email: ea-ee@labour.gov.hk


RE: Complaint Against Employment Agencies


To whom this may concern,

As concerned members of the Hong Kong community, we would like to report suspicious, unethical, and potentially rule-breaking behavior of an unlicensed employment agency operating as “Boss Employment Agency” at Shop 42-A Ground Floor, Manor Centre Shopping Arcade, 218 Fuk Wing Street, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon.


1. Boss Employment Agency is operating as an unlicensed employment agency. This constitutes a violation of the Employment Ordinance.

2. Boss Employment Agency falsely claims that it is a “Licensed Employment Agency” on marketing and advertising materials. This constitutes a violation of Trade Descriptions Ordinance (Section 7A).

3. The Director of the agency, Tania, falsely claims that the agency has accreditation with the Philippines consulate.




When considered individually or collectively, the above concerns deserve prompt attention. As illustrated in the attached Exhibits, Boss Employment Agency is violating numerous provisions of Hong Kong Law as well as regulations set forth by the Philipines Overseas Labor Office (POLOHK) and based on this behavior Tania and Boss Employment Agency are not fit to be operating as an employment agency.

We respectfully urge you to take prompt action to initiate proceedings against the offenders and should you need any more information or details - please do not hesitate to contact us.


A trader who adopts “Unfair Trade Practices” commits an offence. There are five kinds of “Unfair Trade Practices” outlined under Part IIB of the TDO. Section 13E: Misleading Omissions A commercial practice is a misleading omission if it: omits / hides / provides unclear, unintelligible, ambiguous or untimely material information; fails to identify its commercial intent; or causes the average consumer to make a transactional decision that he would not have made otherwise. Section13F: Aggressive Commercial Practices A commercial practice is aggressive if: it significantly impairs the average consumer’s freedom of choice or conduct through the use of harassment, coercion or undue influence; and causes the consumer to make a transactional decision that he would not have made otherwise. Section 13G: Bait Advertising Having regard to the nature of the market in which the trader carries on business and the nature of the advertisement, it is considered bait advertising if: there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the trader will be able to offer for supply a product at the price that has been advertised, or the trader fails to offer for supply the product advertised at that price for a reasonable period and in reasonable quantities. It is not bait advertising if: the advertisement states clearly how long the offer lasts or the quantity offered for supply at the advertised price; and the trader offers the product for supply at that price or for that period and in that quantity. Section 13H: Bait and Switch A trader who makes an invitation to purchase a product at a specified price with the intention of promoting a different product and: refuses to show or demonstrate the product to consumers; refuses to take orders for the product or deliver it within a reasonable time; or shows or demonstrates a defective sample of the product commits an offence. Section 13I: Wrongly Accepting Payment A trader wrongly accepts payment if at the time of acceptance: he intends not to supply the product; he intends to supply a product that is materially different; or there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the trader will be able to supply the product: within the period specified by the trader at or before the time at which the payment or other consideration is accepted; or if no period is specified at or before that time, within a reasonable period.