REPORT ON THE ILLICIT ACTIVITIES OF:


Seven & i Holdings Company Limited
7-ELEVEN, Inc.
Uni-President Enterprises Corporation
President Chain Store Corporation
The Dairy Farm Company Limited
Philippine Seven Corp.
7-ELEVEN Stores


In Relation to Suspected Money Laundering, Human Trafficking, and Illicit Activities in Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, Philippines, and Other Jurisdictions


This report is prepared for authorities and institutions in Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, the Philippines, the United States of America and other jurisdictions to take prompt action on the above company to bring the perpetrators to justice and supplement ongoing investigations, regulatory actions, and law enforcement cases:


Prepared for:


Hong Kong SAR
* Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau
* Hong Kong Police Force
* Hong Kong Monetary Authority
* Customs and Excise Department
* Money Lenders Licensing Unit
* Legco Panel on Financial Affairs
* Hong Kong Ombudsman
* Hong Kong Money Service Operators Association
* The Hong Kong S.A.R. Licensed Money Lenders Association Limited
* Hong Kong Credit and Collection Management Association


Taiwan
* Taiwan Police and Human Trafficking 
* Taiwan Banking Regulators
* Anti-Money Laundering Division (AMLD) of the Investigation Bureau, Ministry of Justice


Philippines 
* Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC)


United States
* Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
* Attorney General of Texas


7-ELEVEN
* 7-ELEVEN Incorporated
* Seven-Eleven Japan Company Limited
* Seven-Eleven (China) Investment Company Limited
* 7-ELEVEN Investor Relations Department


International Organisations 
* UNODC (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime)


Shareholders
* Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited
* Jardine Strategic Holdings Limited
* Keswick Family of Scotland


Directors and Senior Management at Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited
* Ben Keswick (Executive Chairman)
* John Witt (Managing Director)
* Sir Henry Keswick (Chairman Emeritus)
* Y.K. Pang (Deputy Managing Director and Chairman of Hong Kong)
* Graham Baker (Group Finance Director)
* Stuart Gulliver
* David Hsu (Director)
* Julian Hui
* Adam Keswick
* Alex Newbigging
* Anthony Nightingale
* Jeremy Parr (Group General Counsel)
* Percy Weatherall
* Michael Wei Kuo Ku
* Anne O’Riordan (Director)
* Kelly Kong (Group Financial Controller)
* John Koshy (Head of Group Legal Affairs)
* Jocelyn Lam (Group Head of Taxation)
* Jonathan Lloyd (Group Corporate Secretary)
* John Nolan (Group Human Resources Director)
* Max Sunarcia (Group Treasurer)
* Thomas Tan (Head of Group Audit and Risk Management)


Other Stakeholders
* Hong Kong Licensed Money Lenders Association Limited
* Softmedia Technology Company Limited
* Members of Working Group on Common QR Code Standard for Retail Payments in Hong Kong
   * Alipay Financial Services (HK) Limited
   * American Express International Inc.
   * Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited
   * The Bank of East Asia
   * Global Payments Inc.
   * HKT Payment Limited
   * Hong Kong Interbank Clearing Limited
   * Hong Kong Monetary Authority
   * The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
   * Mastercard Asia/Pacific Pte. Ltd.
   * Octopus Cards Limited
   * TNG (Asia) Limited
   * UnionPay International Co., Ltd
   * Visa Worldwide Pte. Limited
   * WeChat Pay Hong Kong Limited
* Convenience Retail Asia Limited 
* Hong Kong Money Service Operators Association
* The Association of Convenience Stores
* Other applicable international organizations, government agencies, civil society groups, whistleblower groups, and related persons and entities.






[OVERVIEW][a]
________________
Table of Contents




Sections


1. Overview of the Scheme


Human Trafficking Activity

2. Human Trafficking Activity Involving 7-ELEVEN Financial Services


3. Human Trafficking Activity Involving Taiwan

   1. Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act

   2. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines)

   3. Case 2: Collection Syndicates in Taiwan and Good Hope Lending Corporation (Philippines)

   4. Case 3: IF Lending Investor Inc. Lending Syndicate

   5. Case 4: Global Financial Consultant Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and E-Cash and Paylite Financing Inc. (Philippines)

   6. Case 5: Family Financial Management Consultant Co. Ltd (Taiwan) and Agency-Lender Syndicates in Philippines Including I-Cash Express Lending Corporation


      7. Case 6: Collection Syndicates in Taiwan and Good Future Lending Phils. Corp. (Philippines)

      8. Case 7: JumpJet Lending (Philippines) Key-Cash (Philippines) and Leader International Corporation syndicate (Taiwan)


         9. Case 8: Key Cash & Paylite Lending, Inc. Syndicate

         10. Case 9: King Ping Lending Company Syndicate

         11. Case 10: VIP Cash Lending Corporation Syndicate[b]

         12. Similar Schemes

            4. Human Trafficking Activity Involving Hong Kong SAR

               1. Case 1: Niaga Finance Company Limited and CASH4U Financing Corporation

               2. Case 2: Carry You (HK) Service Limited and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation


                  3. Case 3: Mutual Honour (Hong Kong) Limited and Ceazar Pacific Money Lending Co. Ltd. 

                  4. Case 4: TOYO Finance and Credit Limited and Employment Agency Syndicates

                  5. Case 5: Ample Corporation Limited and Employment Agency Syndicates

                  6. Similar Schemes

                     5. Human Trafficking Activity Involving Other Jurisdictions

                        1. Case 1: OLM Financing Corporation (Philippines)

                        2. Similar Schemes

Money Laundering Activity

                           6. Money Laundering Activity Involving 7-ELEVEN Financial Services

                           7. Money Laundering Activity Involving Taiwan

                              1. Taiwan Money Laundering Control Act

                                 1. Relevant Predicate Offenses

                                    2. Money Laundering Involving Human Trafficking (explanation: everything that was explained above in the human trafficking section also involves money laundering)

                                    3. Other Schemes (reportedly there are many other schemes involving human trafficking syndicates and loan sharks that have been observed to use 7-ELEVEN as a payment mechanism)
                                       1. Owtel Taiwan
                                       2. One more lender

                                          8. Money Laundering Activity Involving Hong Kong SAR

                                             1. Hong Kong SAR Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance

                                                1. Relevant Predicate Offenses

                                                   2. Case 1: OWA Syndicate and Affiliates

                                                   3. Case 2: PrimeCredit Limited

                                                   4. Case 3: HS Finance & Credit Co., Ltd.

                                                   5. Case 4: 10+ Money Lenders Using the Softmedia Finance Company Limited Loan Management Software and 7-ELEVEN Payment QR Code API Service

                                                   6. Similar Schemes

                                                      9. Money Laundering Activity Involving Other Jurisdictions

                                                         1. Case 1:OLM Financing Corporation

                                                         2. Similar Schemes

Violations of 7-ELEVEN’s Policies and Public Commitments

                                                            10. Non-Compliance with 7-ELEVEN’s Community Policies, Content Policies, and Public Commitments

Insufficient and Misleading Disclosures


                                                               11. Suspected Securities Violations Through Material Omissions and Misleading Statements[c]
	

	



Appendices


                                                               1. Collection of 7-ELEVEN Receipts, QR Codes, Barcodes, and transaction information relating to 7-ELEVEN and human trafficking or money laundering activities.
                                                               2. Non-exhaustive collection of police reports involving 7-ELEVEN as either a platform facilitating human trafficking, money laundering, or both.
                                                               3. Select law enforcement statements involving 7-ELEVEN as either either a platform facilitating human trafficking, money laundering, or both.
                                                               4. Table of government announcements and media reports involving 7-ELEVEN as a platform for illicit black market activity, likely to include human trafficking and money laundering.
                                                               5. Additional law enforcement reports, court records, administrative case documents, and other materials manifesting 7-ELEVEN’s facilitation of  human trafficking, money laundering, or both.
                                                               6. Letters previously sent to 7-ELEVEN warning them about human trafficking and money laundering activities
                                                               7. Anything else can be included here: including Whistleblower submissions, etc


Dossiers


Human Trafficking Dossiers


                                                               1. Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and Affiliates
                                                               2. HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines) and Affiliates
                                                               3. Carry You (HK) Service Limited and Affiliates
                                                               4. Niaga Finance Company Limited
                                                               5. Cash4U Financing Corporation
                                                               6. Mutual Honour (Hong Kong) Limited
                                                               7. OLM Finance Corporation
                                                               8. You can attach another if needed

Money Laundering Dossiers

                                                                  9. OWA Syndicate and Affiliates
                                                                  10. Owtel and Affiliates
                                                                  11. Rich Credit Finance Limited, EasyLink Capital Limited, and Affiliates
                                                                  12. Mainstar Credit Service Limited and Affiliates
                                                                  13. Top Credit Finance Limited and UN Finance (HK) Limited and Affiliates
                                                                  14. PrimeCredit Limited
                                                                  15. You can attach another if needed
	

	

	













________________


Executive summary 
________________






Section 1
Overview of the Scheme




This section contains the following:


1.1. Relevance of the Scheme to 7-ELEVEN 
	

	1.2. Summary of the Scheme


1.3. Table of Suspected Violations
	

	________________
1.1 Relevance of the Scheme to 7-Eleven and Dairy Farm 
7-ELEVEN is a multinational corporation that operates, franchises, and licenses convenience stores across the globe. In addition to providing general retail services, 7-ELEVEN stores currently provide quasi-banking and money transfer services (the “Services”) to various commercial organizations that engage in human trafficking, debt bondage, and money laundering. These organizations use the Services–in particular, the QR Code or barcode payment function–to receive payments from the victims of their illicit activities. By providing the Services to these criminal organizations, 7-ELEVEN is inadvertently aiding those companies’ illegal activities and facilitating modern slavery in multiple jurisdictions worldwide–7-ELEVEN is suspected to be one of the largest handler of payments relating to human trafficking and debt bondage in the world.  7-ELEVEN is also committing predicate offenses by enabling those companies to engage in illegal activities, as it unwittingly contravenes laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where it provides the Services. Finally, 7-ELEVEN has breached its own internal guidelines by inadvertently facilitating illegal activities, and failed to inform its shareholders of its role in the same. 


The primary victims of debt bondage are overseas foreign workers with active employment in Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan or otherwise. For over 5 years, court judgements in these jurisdictions, among others, have mentioned that the Services have been used in the commission of money laundering or human trafficking-related crimes. 


The fact that multiple judgements in various jurisdictions have taken notice that 7-ELEVEN’s services had been used for illegal activities and indictable offenses should have led 7-ELEVEN to improve who and for what purposes their services can be used - 7- Eleven could have taken more action to prevent their services to be misused and put more protective mechanisms in place. 


Whilst 7-ELEVEN has promised to uphold Human Rights, put CSR policies in place to spot potential misuse of their services and Human Rights violations, and pledged to train their staff in order to spot such misuse and violations, these policies appear not to have been implemented sufficiently, as evidenced by the high volume of cases where the Services are used to further illegal purposes. As such, 7-ELEVEN should make improvements to uphold the standards that they have pledged to adhere to and ensure that these company values are upheld at every level of the company. Moreover, considering the magnitude of the predicate offenses for which 7-ELEVEN’s services seem to be misused and the frequency of such misuse, 7-ELEVEN should have informed their shareholders properly about the situation.   


What this binder contains 


This binder will examine the role played by the Services in human trafficking and money-laundering schemes in Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the Philippines. Parts 2 and 6 provide brief overviews on the legal rules addressing these illegal activities in those jurisdictions, and provide context as to how the Services are used in a typical human trafficking and money-laundering case. Parts 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 9 are a compilation of real cases and evidence demonstrating the discussed typologies. Finally, Part 10 discusses 7-ELEVEN’s community policies, content policies, and commitments, and how they are incommensurate with criminal organizations’ continued use of the Services.   




Relevance for 7-ELEVEN HQ 
Serious action is needed on the part of 7-ELEVEN to acknowledge and tackle this issue. It is suggested that:
                                                                  * Steps be taken to educate potential employees about carefully handling suspicious proceeds;
                                                                  * Collaborate with relevant authorities and law enforcement;
                                                                  * Do more in the education, campaigning, advocating and raising awareness of the issues and abuses currently going on through their system;
                                                                  * Remain transparent and disclose to their shareholders about the issue of its payment system being misused by perpetrators frequently; and
                                                                  * Overall reduce the number of victims.


Relevance for Law Enforcement Authorities
The Law Enforcement Authorities may find these materials useful evidence in their own case.


Relevance for Other Associations
Other associations such as Hong Kong Money Service Operators Association and The Association of Convenience Stores, may find these materials as a reference for setting more stringent compliance requirements on its members.


________________
1.2 Typology of the Scheme


In 2021, there were over 330,000 migrant domestic workers in Hong Kong, the majority of whom are women from the Philippines. Taiwan similarly attracts high numbers of migrant domestic workers from Southeast Asia. To find work, these workers often sign up with a recruitment agency that links them with employers in host countries.  


However, these agencies are primarily responsible for committing the human trafficking offenses that this section addresses. The process by which they exploit workers is generally structured as follows:  


                                                                  1. Agencies charge exorbitant fees for each worker’s application. For example, applicants often pay substantial processing fees to submit their application. 


                                                                  2. Agencies also inform applicants that they must undergo medical tests, again at a substantial fee, as part of their application, and send the applicants to medical centers for those tests. However, those tests are entirely unnecessary; the medical centers are usually associated entities of the agency and will direct the fees paid for the medical test back to the agency. 


                                                                  3. Because applicants are largely unable to pay these exorbitant fees, the agencies direct them to money-lending companies either in the Philippines or the host country so that the applicants can borrow money to pay the fees. No matter the location, these lenders are invariably associated entities of the agency.  


                                                                  4.  The lenders generally charge an illegally high rate of interest–over 300% in many cases–that the workers often cannot repay. They must either restructure their loans, with equally high rates, or take out more loans from different, equally predatory moneylenders. The workers’ passports are often taken as collateral. Alternatively, workers serve as guarantors for each other, so lenders will harass the guarantor if they cannot reach the debtor. 


                                                                  5. If a worker defaults on the loan, the lenders may send debt collectors to harass workers and employers until they refinance their loan or get a new one. Harassment often involves violent and threatening texts and phone calls to the worker and employer, and collectors often visit the workers’ addresses to physically intimidate them. This often leads to the firing and deportation of the worker. 


7-Eleven Services are often used as the payment intermediary within this scheme. Whenever a worker takes out a loan, the recruitment agency or money lender will provide them with a 7-Eleven payment QR code, usually through WhatsApp or other messaging tools. The worker then visits a 7-Eleven in the host country and uses the QR code to make payments on its loans. 








  
  























































1.3 Table of Suspected Violations[d]


SUMMARY OF SUSPECTED VIOLATIONS 
	Legal Basis 
	Explanation
	Money Laundering: Hong Kong 




                                                                  * Cap. 455 Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance - Section 25 Dealing with property known or believed to represent proceeds of an indictable offence.
	Due to the under-regulated nature of 711’s money transfer services, they seem to be used to facilitate transactions related to indictable offences - more specifically to the indictable offence of excessive interes[e]t (Money Lenders Ordinance Cap. 163 - Section 24). 
 
Under the Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance (OSCO) it is an offence for any person to deal with any property, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that it represents proceeds of an indictable offence. 
   
	Money Laundering:  Philippines 


                                                                  * Republic Act No. 9160 amended by Republic Act No. 9194
	Legal Basis
Money laundering is governed by Republic Act No. 9160, known as the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2001, as amended by Republic Act No. 9194 (the “amended Act”). 


Section 4 of the amended Act defines money laundering as a crime whereby the proceeds of an unlawful activity are transacted, thereby making them appear to have originated from legitimate sources. It is committed by the following:
                                                                  1. Any person knowing that any monetary instrument or property represents, involves, or relates to, the proceeds of any unlawful activity, transacts or attempts to transact said monetary instrument or property.
                                                                  2. Any person knowing that any monetary instrument or property involves the proceeds of any unlawful activity, performs or fails to perform any act as a result of which he facilitates the offense of money laundering referred to in paragraph (a) above.


Unlawful activity is defined in Section 3(i) of the amended Act to include at least the following:
                                                                  * (9) Swindling under Article 315 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended;
                                                                  * (14) Felonies or offenses of a similar nature that are punishable under the penal laws of other countries. 


	Money Laundering: Taiwan 




                                                                  * Money Laundering Control Act 




                                                                  * Civil Code




	Money Laundering Control Act (amended 2018)
 
Article 2 - Definition of money laundering
 
As used in this Act, the crime of money laundering is committed by any person who—
 
1. knowingly disguises or conceals the origin of the proceeds of specified unlawful activity, or transfers or converts the proceeds of specified unlawful activity to help others avoid criminal prosecution;
 
2. disguises or conceals the true nature, source, the movement, the location, the ownership, and the disposition or other rights of the proceeds of specified unlawful activity; or
 
3. accepts, obtains, possesses or uses the proceeds of specified unlawful activity committed by others. 
 
It is required that such acts be undertaken 'knowingly'. While not all transactions are suspicious, those involving companies we have previously specified or otherwise drawn attention to should be considered. For example, in the Niaga Finance Scheme, transactions from the money lender were blocked upon provision of notice.
These transfers also help others avoid prosecution because such transactions may be otherwise questioned - on the whole, their transfer services are unregulated, even if 7/11 themselves do not profit.
 
Article 4 - Definition of “proceeds of specified unlawful activity”




                                                                  * “proceeds of specified unlawful activity” mean the property or the benefits and interests of the property obtained or derived from the commission of specified unlawful activities prescribed in Article 3 predicate offences ( details on predicate offences below) When identifying that property is the proceeds of specified unlawful activity it shall not be necessary that a person is convicted of specified unlawful activity.       
 
Article 3 - Specified Unlawful activity/ Predicate Offense
                                                                  * Any offense with a minimum punishment of imprisonment for a term of six months or more.
                                                                  * Article 344  of the Criminal Code [exploitative lending practices] 
                                                                  * Article 14 of the Money Laundering Control Act 
                                                                  * Anyone involved in money laundering activities prescribed in paragraphs in Article 2 shall be sentenced to imprisonment of not more than seven years; in addition, a fine of not more than NT$ 5 million shall be imposed.
                                                                  * An attempt to commit an offense specified in the preceding paragraph is punishable.
                                                                  * In circumstance prescribed in the preceding two paragraphs, the penalty may not exceed the maximum punishment administered for the specified unlawful activity.
 
Civil Code
Maximum interest rate in Taiwan
 
Article 205
If the agreed rate of interest exceeds twenty percent (20%) per annum, the creditor shall not be entitled to claim any interest over twenty percent (20%).
 
Article 206
The creditor shall not cunningly obtain interests by discounting or by any other way, except the interest specified in the preceding article.
 
Article 207
Interest shall not be added to capital and again bear interest; unless otherwise agreed by the parties in writing that the creditor may add interest to the capital after interest has been in arrears for more than one year and has not been paid notwithstanding the demand of the creditor.
The provision of the preceding paragraph does not apply in case there is a different trade custom.
 
Criminal Offences - 
Money Laundering Control Act (amended 2018)
Article 15:
In the event of the following circumstances, if anyone accepts, possesses, or uses the property or the benefits of the property without a reasonable account of the origin of such assets, and if his or her income is obviously disproportionate to the size of such assets, an imprisonment of not less than six months and not more than five years shall be imposed, and a fine of not more than NT$ 5 million may also be imposed:
1. Opening accounts at financial institutions in other people's names or under a false name.
2. Getting hold of accounts opened by others at financial institutions, via improper means.
3. Avoiding anti-money laundering procedures described in Articles 7-10.
An attempt to commit an offense specified in the preceding paragraph is punishable.
 
Accessory liability: 
 
Article 16
If a representative, agent, employee or other employed personnel  of  a legal person commits the above offence in performance of his duties of business, the offender will be pubished and the legal person is also charged with a fine.
 
When a representative, agent, employee or other employed personnel of a legal person commits an offence specified in the preceding two Articles when performing his or her duties of business, the offender shall be punished and the legal person shall be also charged with a fine in accordance with the provisions of the respective applicable article.
	Reporting Money Laundering Taiwan
 
Money Laundering Control Act (amended 2018) 
                                                                  * Article 10 
	Article 10
Financial institutions and designated nonfinancial businesses or professions shall report to the Investigation Bureau of the Ministry of Justice all suspicious transactions, including attempted transactions, which may involve any of the offenses described in Articles 14 and 15.
 
[...] 
 
For violations of the provisions in the first paragraph and the rules enacted in accordance with the third paragraph relating to the scope, methods and procedures of reporting, the central competent authorities in charge of the relevant industry associations shall impose a fine of between NT$500,000 and NT$10,000,000 on financial institutions, and a fine of between NT$50,000 and NT$1,000,000 on designated nonfinancial businesses or professions.
 
7-ELEVEN as a non-financial business should have reported the suspicious transactions which have been processed via their payment services these transactions seem to have ties to money laundering. 
	Reporting Money Laundering Hong Kong 
 
Cap. 455 Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance 
                                                                  * 25A. Disclosure of knowledge or suspicion that property represents proceeds, etc. of an indictable offence
	If a person knows or suspects that any property is 
                                                                  * intended to be used in connection with; or
                                                                  * was used in connection with; or
                                                                  * in whole or partly or indirectly represents any person’s proceeds of an indictable offence
the person shall as soon as it is reasonable for him to disclose that knowledge or suspicion. Failure to make such disclosure may amount to an offence punishable by a fine of HK$50,000 and three months’ imprisonment. 
7-ELEVEN has seemingly received and read registered mail that contained details on how their services are used for transactions related to an indictable offense, namely excessive interest. 
	Human trafficking Hong Kong
	According to HKSAR Government’s “Action Plan to Tackle Trafficking in Persons and to Enhance Protection of Foreign Domestic Helpers in Hong Kong” issued in 2018, Trafficking in Persons (TIP) is a heinous crime which is not tolerated in Hong Kong. 
 
However, the situation of debt bondage and forced labor in Hong Kong is still critical. On many occasions, domestic helpers are forced and threatened to repay those illegal loans through 7-Eleven. It can possibly be concluded that 7-Eleven has facilitated those illegal loan arrangements as a commonly used payment agent in the syndicate. This would completely be against the government’s endeavour to combat TIP in Hong Kong.
	Human trafficking Taiwan 
	According to Human Trafficking Prevention Act Article 2,
 
1. Human trafficking:
 
(1) To recruit, trade, take into bondage, transport, deliver, receive, harbor, hide, broker, or accommodate a local or foreign person, by force, threat, intimidation, confinement, monitoring, drugs, hypnosis, fraud, purposeful concealment of important information, illegal debt bondage, withholding important documents, making use of the victim’s inability, ignorance or helplessness, or by other means against his/her will, for the intention of subjecting him/her to sexual transactions, labor to which pay is not commensurate with the work duty, organ harvesting; or to use the above-mentioned means to impose sexual transactions, labor to which pay is not commensurate with the work duty, or organ harvesting on the victims.
 
(2) To recruit, trade, take into bondage, transport, deliver, receive, harbor, hide, broker, to sex transactions, labor to which pay is not commensurate with the work duty, or organ harvesting, or to subject people under 18 years of age to sexual transactions, labor to which pay is not commensurate with the work duty, or organ
harvesting.
 
2. Offenses of human trafficking:
 
Referring to acts of human trafficking conducted in violation of this Act, the Criminal Code, Labor Standard Law, or Child and Youth Sexual Exploitation Prevention Act, or other related laws.
 
3. Improper debt bondage:
 
Referring to the use of unclear contracts or unreasonable payments of a debt to place people under bondage, subjecting them to sexual transactions, labor exploitation, or organ harvesting in order to fulfill or guarantee the payment of their debts.
	Human trafficking Philippines
	According to Section 5(g) of Republic Act No. 9208 (The Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of
2003), it is prohibited “to knowingly benefit from, financial or otherwise, or make use of, the labor or services of a person held to a condition of involuntary servitude, forced labor, or slavery.”
	711’s Companies Polices, AML Commitments, CTIP Commitments, ESG initiatives, etc
                                                                  * Management Report
                                                                  * CSR Data Book
                                                                  * Sustainability Report
                                                                  * 2018 
                                                                  * Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines
                                                                  * https://www.7andi.com/en/sustainability/compliance.html
	Management Report (issued at Mar 2021)
 
On page 84 of the report, Seven & i Holdings Company Limited promised to promote the protection and respect of human rights, as well as ensure compliance with laws and regulations.
 
CSR Data Book (Last updated at 2020)
 
It is stated in page 3 of the data book that the basic policies of 7-Eleven include “Maintenance of Fair and Transparent Transactions”, “Respect for Human Rights” and “Efforts Regarding Social Issues”. Meanwhile, the facilitation of collecting illegal debts might undermine the company’s efforts in adherence to those policies. 
 
Sustainability Report 2018
                                                                  * Seven-Eleven Bank Ltd.; page 209-210 
                                                                  * gather and utilize information on anti-social forces to prevent transactions
                                                                  * improve detection capabilities for financial crimes that are evolving and growing more diverse (money laundering) and strengthen prevention measures and money laundering countermeasures.
                                                                  * strengthening collaboration with investigating agencies and business partners. 
 
Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines
 
Basic Policy (https://www.7andi.com/en/sustainability/policy/guidelines.html) : 




                                                                  * 4. Respect for Human Rights 
                                                                  * comply with standards on human rights
                                                                  * provide education to improve directors’, officers’ and employees’ understanding and awareness.
 
Code of Corporate Conduct 




                                                                  * 1. Compliance (Legal Compliance= 
                                                                  * 1. highest priority on compliance with laws and social norms in our business activities and aim to have sound corporate governance within management.
                                                                  * 3. We do not associate with antisocial forces, organizations, groups, or persons that pose a threat to the social order or security of civil life. Instead, we resolutely confront their pressure and eliminate it.
                                                                  * 5. Relationship with Local and International Community
                                                                  * 5. engage in activities utilizing our employees' expertise and techniques in coordination with NGOs, NPOs, research organizations, and the like to resolve human rights, [...] and other domestic and overseas affairs. Encourage our directors, officers, and employees to participate in volunteer activities and the like.
                                                                        
Compliance Education and Training of Employees
Seven & i Holdings and Group companies endeavor to promote and foster understanding of the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines among all employees. To this end they have prepared specific guidance for employees on how to put the guidelines into practice in line with the business characteristics of each company. In addition, when undertaking tier-specific group training for organizational levels ranging from new recruits to management, Seven & i Holdings provides training based on the themes of the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines and compliance.
 
Anti-corruption 
Seven & i Holdings is a signatory to "the UN Global Compact." [...]Seven & i Holdings is working on anti-corruption, including extortion and bribery, in compliance with the laws and regulations of the regions in which it operates.[...]We also prohibit the receipt of private benefits from business partners, and do not engage in any form of corruption or fraud, including bribery, illegal political contributions, money laundering, and embezzlement. [...] Each the Seven & i Group company has provided specific guidance for implementing the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines in accordance with its business characteristics and educates its employees. The Seven & i Group reports any suspected violation of compliance, including corruption, to its superiors, and accepts reports from employees through the Groupwide Employee Helpline, an internal reporting system, and from business partners through the Business Partner Helpline. If a serious violation occurs, we report it to the Board of Directors and take disciplinary action in accordance with internal regulations. The status of compliance with the Corporate Action Guidelines is confirmed in the "Employee Engagement Survey" which is held every two years, and the "Business Partner Questionnaires" which are held every year.
 
Whilst 7-Eleven has put CSR policies in place it seems that there are violations of these very CSR commitments. 7-Eleven should make improvements to uphold the standard that they have pledged to adhere to and ensure that these company values are upheld at every level of the company.
	Other illicit activities
                                                                  * Receipts that fade
                                                                  * Not showing recipient information on QR codes or other details
                                                                  * Allowing structured transactions
                                                                  * Delayed action on reports of illicit activity
                                                                  * Insufficient due diligence
                                                                  * Insufficient staff training
	

	



________________




Section 2 
Human Trafficking Activity Involving 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services
2.1 Human Trafficking Overview


Human Trafficking is the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of people through force, fraud or deception, with the aim of exploiting them for profit. Figure 2, extracted from a United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (“UNDOC”) paper, portrays the various typologies of human trafficking offenses. Men, women and children of all ages and from all backgrounds can become victims of this crime and it occurs in every region of the world. Traffickers often use fraudulent employment agencies and fake promises of education and job opportunities to trick and coerce their victims.[1] Human trafficking is especially prevalent in under-regulated industries that rely on low-skilled or unskilled labor, where traffickers may abuse their positions of power to exploit individuals in positions of vulnerability. For example, forced labor–which is the most common form of human trafficking, affecting nearly 25 million people–often involves domestic workers who are trapped in bonded labor through fraud or deception, who are forced to work off their own, or others’, loans at illegally high levels of interest. 


  

(source:https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/human-trafficking/crime.html)


More than 40.3 million people[2] are directly affected by human trafficking. Not only is human trafficking an illicit multibillion dollar industry, it also has a wide reaching impact, it undermines global peace and security by bankrolling criminal organizations, it threatens human rights and undercuts global development by uprooting and destabilizing communities.


7-ELEVEN as a Medium for Trafficking:


In order to work as a domestic worker, women often sign up with a recruitment agency that will place them to another wealthier country and will set them up with an employer. The worker may agree to work under the terms stipulated by the agency and pay off the debt over time through their labour. Therefore, the agency will commonly organise for the worker to go into debt with their associated credit agency or financial institution, this amount is then paid back by deductions out of the domestic workers’ wages for a particular period. Apart from that, workers would sometimes pay the agency fees and costs of going overseas upfront. They choose to enter into such arrangements with the recruitment agency, in the often mistaken belief that it will lift them and their families out of poverty. 


7-Eleven has been frequently used as a medium in this scheme. From time to time, the recruitment agency or money lender will send them the 7-Eleven payment QR code, usually through whatsapp or other messaging tools. Then the worker will have to present the code to 7-Eleven and repay those excessive debts. The troublesome part of it is that, although collecting such fees or excessive interests are illegal, it is often difficult to produce relevant evidence or proof. Reason is that the payment receipt provided by 7-Eleven fades away easily. Therefore by the time those victims want to sue the crime offenders, they already have little or no proof to support their claim.
________________




2.2 7-ELEVEN’s Liability for Human Trafficking 
This section will set out the human trafficking laws in different jurisdictions that are violated by the agencies and moneylenders and enabled by 7-ELEVEN’s provision of the Services. 




________________


Human Trafficking Laws in Taiwan  


Human Trafficking Prevention Act, Articles 2 and Chapter 4


Article 2


Human trafficking is defined as follows: 
 
To recruit, trade, take into bondage, transport, deliver, receive, harbor, hide, broker, or accommodate a local or foreign person, by force, threat, intimidation, confinement, monitoring, drugs, hypnosis, fraud, purposeful concealment of important information, illegal debt bondage, withholding important documents, making use of the victim’s inability, ignorance or helplessness, or by other means against his/her will, for the intention of subjecting him/her to sexual transactions, labor to which pay is not commensurate with the work duty, organ harvesting; or to use the above-mentioned means to impose sexual transactions, labor to which pay is not commensurate with the work duty, or organ harvesting on the victims.
 
Improper debt bondage is defined as follows: 
 
Referring to the use of unclear contracts or unreasonable payments of a debt to place people under bondage, subjecting them to sexual transactions, labor exploitation, or organ harvesting in order to fulfill or guarantee the payment of their debts.


Chapter 4


See Chapter 4 of the Act for the full list of penalties that are set out for commission of human trafficking offenses. These sections distinguish between the means used to achieve exploitative goals: where force, intimidation, or coercion is used to exploit the victim, the penalty tends to be more severe. Where debt bondage is used to exploit the victim, the penalty is less severe. These penalties comprise both monetary fines and / or terms of imprisonment. Finally, any attempt to commit these offenses is criminalized as well. 


In particular, Article 32: 


Anyone using such means as force, threat, intimidation…or other means against another person ’ s will to labor to which pay is not commensurate with the work duty for profit, shall be sentenced to imprisonment under seven years, and may also be fined up to NT$5 million.


Anyone using such means as debt bondage or the abuse of another person ’ s inability, ignorance, or helplessness to subject him/her to labor to which pay is not commensurate with the work duty for profit, shall be sentenced to imprisonment under three years, and may also be fined up to NT$1 million.


Any attempt to commit either crime stated in the preceding two paragraphs is punishable.




Analysis and Applicability to 7-ELEVEN


                                                                  * Migrant workers who have been trafficked by organizations like Grand Fusion and HOYA work in situations where the pay is not commensurate with the work performed. This difference between pay and labor is attributable to the debts and placement fees enforced upon the workers. Further, these companies use debt collectors to intimidate or coerce workers into continuing their employment. This fulfills the criteria set out in the first paragraph of Article 32.   
                                                                  * Alternatively, these trafficking organizations have taken migrant workers into debt bondage by making use of their inability or helplessness, and subjected them to labor with incommensurate pay. This fulfills the criteria in the second paragraph of Article 32. 
                                                                  * As such, these trafficking organizations have committed the offense of human trafficking and are subject to the penalties set out in Article 32. 
                                                                  * As illustrated by the provisions of the Criminal Code below, 7-ELEVEN may be an accessory to offenses under this Ordinance because its Services facilitate the completion of human trafficking offenses. 


________________




Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of China, Articles 30 and 31  


Article 30


A person who aids another in the commission of a crime is an accessory notwithstanding that the person aided does not know of the assistance. The punishment prescribed for an accessory may be reduced from that prescribed for the principal offender.


Article 31 
A person who joins, solicits or aids another in an offense established on the basis of personal or other special relationship shall be considered a principal offender or solicitor or accessory but the punishment may be reduced. If the punishment is to be increased, reduced, or remitted because of personal special relationship, an offender who has no such special relationship shall be given the normally prescribed punishment.


Analysis and Applicability to 7-ELEVEN


                                                                  * The term “person” applies to all legal and natural persons. As such, corporations may be prosecuted under these articles. 
                                                                  * 7-ELEVEN could be liable as an accessory for aiding the commission of the human trafficking offenses set out in the Human Trafficking Prevention Act because of Article 30, even if 7-ELEVEN was not aware of its role in facilitating those offenses[f]. 
                                                                  * <special relationship?> 


________________




Civil Code, Articles 205-207


Maximum interest rate in Taiwan


Article 205
If the agreed rate of interest exceeds twenty percent (20%) per annum, the creditor shall not be entitled to claim any interest over twenty percent (20%).
 
Article 206
The creditor shall not cunningly obtain interests by discounting or by any other way, except the interest specified in the preceding article.
 
Article 207
Interest shall not be added to capital and again bear interest; unless otherwise agreed by the parties in writing that the creditor may add interest to the capital after interest has been in arrears for more than one year and has not been paid notwithstanding the demand of the creditor.
The provision of the preceding paragraph does not apply in case there is a different trade custom.


Analysis and Applicability to 7-ELEVEN


                                                                  * Agencies and money lenders charge illegally high interest rates, far above the allowed cap. 
                                                                  * They disguise those interest rates 
________________
Human Trafficking Laws in Hong Kong 


Hong Kong does not have legislation criminalizing human trafficking. Instead, the Department of Justice utilizes a piecemeal approach by prosecuting traffickers for other offenses under Hong Kong law, as illustrated in the Government’s 2018 “Action Plan to Tackle Trafficking in Persons and to Enhance Protection of Foreign Domestic Helpers in Hong Kong.” Other guidance surrounding the prosecution of human traffickers is set out in the 2013 Hong Kong Prosecution Code, which was disseminated by the DoJ. Without the focused approach of a dedicated anti-trafficking statute, agencies and lenders can exploit gray areas in the patchwork of offenses. For example, the existing panoply of offense does not criminalize debt bondage and provides only minimal restrictions on the charging of placement fees by agencies. As a result, agencies and lenders are often prosecuted for money laundering offenses rather than human trafficking offenses. The relevant human trafficking-specific listed below are not enforceable standards per se, and are therefore less 
________________




Palermo Protocol Definition, as adopted by the 2018 Action Plan 


“TIP involves the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of persons, by means of the threat or use of force or other forms of coercion, of abduction, of fraud, of deception, of the abuse of power or of a position of vulnerability or of the giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another person, for the purpose of exploitation, which shall include, at a minimum…forced labour or services, slavery or practices similar to slavery [and] servitude…Conducts [sic] of TIP are prohibited by various pieces of legislation in Hong Kong.”   


________________




Hong Kong Prosecution Code 2013


Human exploitation includes activities that demean the value of human life such as…enforced labour, domestic servitude, [and] debt bondage…In appropriate cases, a prosecutor should consider a credible claim that a defendant or intended defendant is a victim of trafficking…a prosecutor should appropriately deal with the case bearing in mind that the person is a victim of trafficking. In this regard, reference can be made to applicable international standards and practices concerning victims of trafficking.” 


________________


Human Trafficking Laws in the Philippines 


























________________


Supporting Evidence: Within this report a large number of supporting evidence is included. This evidence contains: (i) witness statements; (ii) legal and financial analysis; and (iii) corroborating documents such as media reports, case studies, and similar documents. This evidence was collected over a period of 12 months and although extensive the evidence likely only represents a small fraction of human trafficking activities occuring via 7-ELEVEN.


Conclusion: 
Foreign domestic workers make a significant contribution to the total population of Hong Kong SAR, as well as forming a vital part of the lives of many individuals and their families. However, these workers are often vulnerable, relying on agencies in order to help them acquire employment, which often does not pay a significant amount. As a result, these workers are easily taken advantage of, and subject to serious violations of Hong Kong laws, as well as wider international human and labour rights. This is facilitated by Hong Kong’s legal structure, but, alongside this, the payment systems of 7-ELEVEN at worst, strongly enable these abuses, and, at best, do not take adequate action to seek to protect these more vulnerable members of society where they could otherwise stand between them and these illicit lenders. 7-ELEVEN needs to do more. If action is not taken, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for the facilitation of abuses against these workers, such as human trafficking, exploitation and forced labour, notwithstanding that many more workers will be affected by these abuses as the money lenders continue to support their schemes via 7-ELEVEN’s payment methods.


________________


Section 3
(3) Human Trafficking Activity Involving Taiwan


This section contains the following:


a. Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act


b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines)


c. Case 2: Collection Syndicates in Taiwan and Good Hope Lending Corporation (Philippines)


d. Case 3: IF Lending Investor Inc. Lending Syndicate


e. Case 4: Global Financial Consultant Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and E-Cash and Paylite Financing Inc. (Philippines)


f. Case 5: Family Financial Management Consultant Co. Ltd (Taiwan) and Agency-Lender Syndicates in Philippines Including I-Cash Express Lending Corporation


g. Case 6: Collection Syndicates in Taiwan and Good Future Lending Phils. Corp. (Philippines)


h. Case 7: JumpJet Lending (Philippines) Key-Cash (Philippines) and Leader International Corporation syndicate (Taiwan)


i. Case 8: Key Cash & Paylite Lending, Inc. Syndicate

j. Case 9: King Ping Lending Company Syndicate


k. Case 10: VIP Cash Lending Corporation Syndicate


l. Similar Schemes


a. Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act
	Summary:
The Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act (“HTPCA”) criminalized all forms of trafficking and prescribed penalties of up to seven years’ imprisonment and fines of up to 5 million New Taiwan Dollars. 


Key Provisions: The HTPCA includes a number of key provisions relevant to the operations of 7-ELEVEN


Definition of Human Trafficking in Taiwan: could be found in p.16 of this binder (Article 2 of HTPCA)


Principal Offenders and Joint Offenders:


Under Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China, 


…


Current Events:[g]


The evidence listed below demonstrates the scale of the issue of human trafficking and something 7-ELEVEN should consider when conducting its business. 


2020: 


                                                                  1. Prosecution of an illegal recruitment agency in Yilan


Beginning in 2017, a labor broker surnamed Huang (黃) used fake employment applications to contract 15 migrant fishermen. He then sent them to work illegally in the local fishing industry.


In 2018, after he allegedly reported one of the migrants as missing, he sent him to work at a New Taipei City seafood distributor run by two accomplices — a man surnamed Chang (張) and a woman surnamed Tsai (蔡) — who forced the migrant to work more than 10 hours a day without days off or overtime pay.


In 2019, prosecutors alleged that Huang sent another migrant worker to work for Chang and Tsai as a laborer on their fishing boat. When the man later lost a finger in an accident aboard the boat, the couple illegally sent him to work at their distribution company, again with long hours and little compensation, and threatened him with consequences [threatened him with punishment] if he reported it to the Ministry of Labor.


Results


On December 4, 2020, prosecutors in Yilan County have filed human trafficking charges under HTPCA Article 32(2) against Huang, Chang, and Tsai for contracting migrant fishermen using fake employment applications and profiting off their placement in jobs where they worked long hours for little pay.


Source: https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/4070260




2021


                                                                  1. Prosecution of a fraudulent labor agency in Taichung


Facts


Since 2018, Hong Yu Employment Service Agency Company (弘宇人力仲介公司) in Taichung has recruited migrant workers from Vietnam. From 2018-2020, the company placed 126 Vietnamese migrant workers in the construction sector around Taiwan. It has set up a complex web of 19 shell manufacturing companies, using false residential addresses and names of over 200 Taiwanese individuals.


Results


On January 28, 2021, public prosecutors in Taichung indicted four individuals working at the company on charges of human trafficking, violations of the Employment Services Act, and forgery of documents for their role in exploiting Vietnamese migrant workers in Taiwan.


Source: https://international.thenewslens.com/article/147728


                                                                  2. Greenpeace petitions US to investigate Taiwan seafood giant
Facts


Fong Chun Formosa (FCF) is a Taiwan international seafood trader. FCF reportedly trades with vessels implicated in the Giant Ocean Fishermen Recruitment Agency human trafficking case, in which Cambodian authorities found six Taiwanese nationals guilty of “unlawful removal with purpose” of local fishermen, and sentenced each to 10 years’ imprisonment.


Greenpeace has asked the United States Customs and Border Protection (USCBP) to intervene and investigate allegations of human rights abuse documented against FCF. FCF stands accused of forced labor, human trafficking, illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing, and illegal shark finning. Greenpeace investigators commented that this incident exposes “the fundamental need for major companies to move away from a business model which relies on human exploitation.”


Response from stakeholder


The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC): The council which certifies seafood products by a list of sustainability criteria is in the process of drafting a set of more stringent requirements on forced labor and child labor. That could lead to potential de-certification for non-compliant companies.


Source: https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/en/news/4284971

	

________________




b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines)[h][i]
	Summary of Case


Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd (Taiwan) (“Grand Fusion”) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines) (“HOYA”) use 7-ELEVEN’s financial services and barcode payment system to collect payments for illegal loans, which are collected through human trafficking and forced debt bondage.


The typology of the scheme matches the description given in section 1.2. HOYA is a money lending company that is associated with Filipino employment agencies. When prospective migrant workers seek employment in overseas host countries, in this case Taiwan, they utilize employment agencies to find employers. For their services, agencies charge exorbitant fees that the workers cannot pay. As such, the agencies funnel workers to moneylenders like HOYA, which distribute illegal loans that bear unlawfully high interest rates and illegal penalty fees upon default. The workers take out these illegal loans to pay the agency fee and continue to repay the loan as they begin employment in Hong Kong or Taiwan. The moneylenders and agencies therefore work in concert to exploit migrant workers; they are also suspected to have common directorship / ownership / beneficiaries. 


This scheme contravenes the provisions of the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention Act. The migrant workers are exploited for their labor in order to repay unreasonable debts, which falls under the Article 2 definition of debt bondage. By collecting the workers’ debt payments, Grand Fusion is committing human trafficking offenses under the Act. 


Relevance to 7-ELEVEN 


7-11 enters the picture as the intermediary through which HOYA collects their debts in Taiwan and Hong Kong. As seen below, migrant workers are given loan documents with QR codes and or barcodes on them when they take out loans. Once they arrive in the host country, they may visit 7-ELEVENs to make payments on their loans. 


To collect loan payments in Taiwan, HOYA assigns their loan rights to the associated entity Grand Fusion with no consideration in return. When workers make payments through 7-11, it goes to Grand Fusion’s account. Alternatively, workers directly make payments to Taishin International Bank account. 


To collect loan payments in Hong Kong, HOYA designates Carry You as its official loan collection entity in Hong Kong. When workers make payments through 7-11, it goes to Carry You’s account. 
Alternatively, workers make payments directly to HOYA. 


7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them legally being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. 


                                                                  * It is estimated that 7-ELEVEN processes over 80,000 payments relating to the Grand Fusion and HOYA human trafficking and debt bondage scheme each year.
                                                                  * At least 10,000 victims of Grand Fusion and HOYA have been identified as likely victims of human trafficking by members of civil society.
                                                                  * Thousands of migrant workers are victims of this scheme each year.


Relevant Enclosures: 1. Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and Affiliates 2. HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines) and Affiliates are attached
[j]


CANNOT FIND POLICE STATEMENT


https://docs.google.com/document/d/13PbPkyTl-53zLEHdiQGzHkKCLKRYEM9HALTJvFCo-r4/edit




https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tGIPJlV01PB5_Xnvn_-JGopS7ArlRNOPAlItigePwnc/edit



Typology:


  







Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement


Payment Slip Used At 7-ELEVEN For Payment Of Unlawful Debts Incurred As A Result Of Human Trafficking And Forced Debt Bondage - 1
	  

	Importance: 


This payment slip records Hoya’s loan to a migrant worker. It details the loan tenor and instructions for repaying the loan, but does not include any details on the interest rate [or other relevant information.] As seen in the bottom right of the photo, the holder of the slip may visit a number of convenience stores to make monthly payments, one of which is 7-11. This demonstrates the Services’ role in enabling debt bondage activities. 


In the highlighted section, the slip advises borrowers to consult Grand Fusion at its offices in Taiwan if they have any queries. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Grand Fusion and HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Grand Fusion and HOYA after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	





7-ELEVEN Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems
	  

	Importance: 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.

Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30, notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Grand Fusion and HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Grand Fusion and HOYA after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	


Payment Instructions From HOYA Lending Investor Corporation Showing 7-ELEVEN As One Of The Main Payment Processors
	  

	Importance: This document clearly identifies 7-ELEVEN as one of the main payment processors. Furthermore, “heavy punishment” of 0.2% per day violates Taiwan’s Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act due to the threatening language[k]. Such language also likely constitutes criminal intimidation, another serious offense, because lenders can not lawfully charge 0.2% per day because of anti-usury laws in Taiwan.
	Source: A Filipino migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to get a loan from Grand Fusion and HOYA. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	


Payment Slip Used At 7-ELEVEN For Payment Of Unlawful Debts Incurred As A Result Of Human Trafficking And Forced Debt Bondage - 2
	  

	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker is subject to at least 12 months of illicit payments in the amount of “NTD 6,883” per month. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Grand Fusion, HOYA, and Affiliates. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30, notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. 


	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Grand Fusion and HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Grand Fusion and HOYA after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	









Partial Payment Slip And 7-ELEVEN Receipt - 5
	  

	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker is subject to at least 12 months of illicit payments in the amount of “NTD 7,292” per month, of which at least one has been processed via 7-ELEVEN. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Grand Fusion, HOYA, and Affiliates. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30, notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Grand Fusion and HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Grand Fusion and HOYA after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	





































































Partial Payment Slip And 7-ELEVEN Receipt - 7
	  

	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker is subject to at least 12 months of illicit payments in the amount of “NTD 7,292” per month, of which at least one has been processed via 7-ELEVEN. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Grand Fusion, HOYA, and Affiliates. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under section 30, notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Grand Fusion and HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Grand Fusion and HOYA after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	



Conclusion: Therefore, Grand Fusion and HOYA utilise the QR payment services of 7-ELEVEN in order to collect payments at a significant rate - at a rate of over 80,000 payments. However, these payments are unlawful debts, and have come about as a result of illegal measures such as debt bondage, and other methods of human trafficking. These payments are unlawfully procured as a result of unclear contracts and unreasonable payment demands, trapping workers in exploitative arrangements through these debts and other scare tactics, including threats of legal proceedings, and blackmail, affecting at least 10,000 victims. When the agencies use their payment facilities, 7-ELEVEN is effectively aiding in these debts being collected. This may violate Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China, on the basis that they could be considered a Principal/Joint Offender, acting jointly (s28) or ‘aiding in the commission’ of these offences (s30). Subsequently, 7-ELEVEN is likely legally liable for and needs to take action. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage.[l]


	

________________




c. Case 2: Collection Syndicates in Taiwan and Good Hope Lending Corporation (Philippines)
	Summary of Case: The material facts of this case are analogous to b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines) with regards to the unlawful nature of the loans that Good Hope deals with. 

In summary, the Collection Syndicates in Taiwan and Good Hope Lending Corporation (Philippines) (collectively “Good Hope”) use 7-ELEVEN to collect unlawful debts incurred as a result of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debts are often incurred as a result of illegal employment agencies forcing migrant workers to obtain loans to pay illegal agency fees. These illegal agency fees are sometimes camouflaged as medical examination fees, training fees, documentation fees, or miscellaneous fees. Regardless of how they are labeled, there is no legal justification for these fees and the resulting debt.

Among other concerns, Good Hope uses 7-ELEVEN to:


                                                                  1. Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection sdyndictes by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.

Legal Implications: In effect, 7-ELEVEN is acting as a payment processor for human trafficking and debt bondage syndicates. As a result, 7-ELEVEN is arguably aiding in the commission of human trafficking and debt bondage activities and could be subject to criminal proceedings or asset forfeture.


                                                                     * As an accessory, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for the act of human trafficking and debt bondage activities to pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of China.

                                                                     * 7-ELEVEN likely receives money, revenue, or other benefits as a result of handling payments for Good Hope. These benefits may include the cash that 7-ELEVEN receives before transferring it to Good Hope, the increased foot traffic and thus increase sales that 7-ELEVEN generates, and other tangible and intangible benefits. Because 7-ELEVEN is generating these benefits as a result of aiding a human trafficking and debt bondage syndicate, 7-ELEVEN may be subject to asset forfeiture in accordance with the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention Act and more general criminal and civil statutes.[m]


Ubiquity of Scheme:


                                                                        * It is estimated that 7-ELEVEN processes over 10,000 payments relating to the Good Hope human trafficking and debt bondage scheme each year.
                                                                        * At least 2,000 victims of Good Hope have been identified as likely victims of human trafficking by members of civil society.
                                                                        * Thousands of migrant workers are victims of this scheme each year.


Typology:





  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Dossier #
	Subject
	Importance
	Pending
	Good Hope
	A dossier on the illicit activities of Good Hope is being prepared. However, certain details such as criminal law enforcement statements or police reports may be redacted or withheld until the conclusion of criminal investigations and prosecution. Over 10 victims have already signed detailed affidavits affirming that Good Hope is using 7-ELEVEN to collect sham debts used by human traffickers and employment agencies for the purposes of placing migrant workers into situations of internationally recognized debt bondage and modern day slavery.
	



Conclusion:
In conclusion, the Collection Syndicates and Good Hope utilise the QR payment services of 7-ELEVEN in order to collect payments at a significant rate - around 10,000 payments. However, these payments are unlawful debts, due to the fact that they have arisen as a result of requiring workers to take out loans in order to cover illegal agency fees, such as excessive documentation or medical fees. These payments trap workers in exploitative arrangements, including human trafficking. When these groups require their victims to use their payment facilities when paying these debts, 7-ELEVEN aiding in these debts being collected, and subsequently is likely legally liable for. For this, it is demanded that they take some form of action. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage.
	

________________




d. Case 3: IF Lending Investor Inc. Lending Syndicate
	Summary of Case: This case is analogous to b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines).

In summary, IF Lending Investor Inc. Lending Syndicate (“IF Lending”) use 7-ELEVEN to collect unlawful debts incurred as a result of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debts are often incurred as a result of illegal employment agencies forcing migrant workers to obtain loans to pay illegal agency fees. These illegal agency fees are sometimes camouflaged as medical examination fees, training fees, documentation fees, or miscellaneous fees. Regardless of how they are labeled, there is no legal justification for these fees and the resulting debt.

Among other concerns, IF Lending uses 7-ELEVEN to:


Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection sdyndictes by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.

Legal Implications: In effect, 7-ELEVEN is acting as a payment processor for human trafficking and debt bondage syndicates. As a result, 7-ELEVEN is arguably aiding in the commission of human trafficking and debt bondage activities and could be subject to criminal proceedings or asset forfeture.


                                                                        * As an accessory, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for the act of human trafficking and debt bondage activities to pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of China.

                                                                        * 7-ELEVEN likely receives money, revenue, or other benefits as a result of handling payments for Good Hope. These benefits may include the cash that 7-ELEVEN receives before transferring it to Good Hope, the increased foot traffic and thus increase sales that 7-ELEVEN generates, and other tangible and intangible benefits. Because 7-ELEVEN is generating these benefits as a result of aiding a human trafficking and debt bondage syndicate, 7-ELEVEN may be subject to asset forfeiture in accordance with the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention Act and more general criminal and civil statutes.


Ubiquity of Scheme:


                                                                           * It is estimated that 7-ELEVEN processes over 10,000 payments relating to the Good Hope human trafficking and debt bondage scheme each year.
                                                                           * At least 2,000 victims of Good Hope have been identified as likely victims of human trafficking by members of civil society.
                                                                           * Thousands of migrant workers are victims of this scheme each year.[n]


Typology:






  





Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:[o]


	

Receipt from Payment Transfer Including Payment Instructions From IF Lending Showing 7-ELEVEN As One Of The Main Payment Processors
	 
  

 
	Importance: This document clearly identifies 7-ELEVEN as one of the main payment processors for the money involved in unlawful loan payments. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A Filipino migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to get a loan from IF Lending. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	

 
Loan Settlement Receipt Requiring Payment of Unlawful Debts Incurred As A Result of Human Trafficking and Forced Debt Bondage
	

 IF LENDING INVESTORS, INC. 
Keev this All should kept liter payments 
Muvnu. Y PA 
9.563 
9±63 
9363 
9363 
9.563 
9.563 
9563 
9563 
OF PAY 
J3-JuJ-2019 
1}-Aug.2019 
13-Sep-2019 
130ct.2019 
13-Nov-2019 
13-Dec-2019 
13.Jan-2020 
13-Feb-2020 
13-Mar-2020 
DATE AND TIME you PAY 
DATE: 
Contact No. 0927-875-8886 / 0939-555-0898 
Address: 1920 M. Adriatico St.Malate, Manila, Philippines  

	Importance: This loan settlement receipt shows that a migrant worker is subject to at least 12 months of illicit payments in the amount of “9,563” per month. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act. As per their instructions (above), IF Lending instructs the victim to process these payments via 7-ELEVEN. As a result, 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to IF Lending. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to take out a loan from IF Lending. This loan was used to pay for unlawful education/trainings fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to IF Lending after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	

 
Partial Payment Slip Used For Payment Of Unlawful Debts Incurred As A Result Of Human Trafficking And Forced Debt Bondage - 1
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has paid "NTD 9,563" to IF Lendings. This is part of the payment plan (as above), under which they are subject to 10 such payments from a dubious loan agreement. These are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to IF Lendings. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to take out a loan from IF Lending. This loan was used to pay for unlawful education/trainings fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to IF Lending after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducts these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	

Partial Payment Slip Used For Payment Of Unlawful Debts Incurred As A Result Of Human Trafficking And Forced Debt Bondage - 2
	  

	Importance:
This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has paid "NTD 9,563" to IF Lendings. This is part of the payment plan (as above), under which they are subject to 10 such payments from a dubious loan agreement. These are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to IF Lendings. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to take out a loan from IF Lending. This loan was used to pay for unlawful education/trainings fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to IF Lending after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducts these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 


Partial Payment Slip Used For Payment Of Unlawful Debts Incurred As A Result Of Human Trafficking And Forced Debt Bondage - 3
	  

	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has paid "NTD 9,563" to IF Lendings. This is part of the payment plan (as above), under which they are subject to 10 such payments from a dubious loan agreement, and shows that 7-ELEVEN are a . These are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to IF Lendings. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to take out a loan from IF Lending. This loan was used to pay for unlawful education/trainings fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to IF Lending after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducts these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	



Partial Payment Slip Used For Payment Of Unlawful Debts Incurred As A Result Of Human Trafficking And Forced Debt Bondage - 4
	  
 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has paid "NTD 9,563" to IF Lendings. This is part of the payment plan (as above), under which they are subject to 10 such payments from a dubious loan agreement. These are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to IF Lendings. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to take out a loan from IF Lending. This loan was used to pay for unlawful education/trainings fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to IF Lending after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducts these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Partial Payment Slip Used For Payment Of Unlawful Debts Incurred As A Result Of Human Trafficking And Forced Debt Bondage - 5
	

  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has paid "NTD 9,563" to IF Lendings. This is part of the payment plan (as above), under which they are subject to 10 such payments from a dubious loan agreement. The document instructs the victim to use 7-ELEVEN in order to facilitate this payment. These are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to IF Lendings. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to take out a loan from IF Lending. This loan was used to pay for unlawful education/trainings fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to IF Lending after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducts these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Partial Payment Slip Used For Payment Of Unlawful Debts Incurred As A Result Of Human Trafficking And Forced Debt Bondage - 6
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has paid "NTD 9,563" to IF Lendings. This is part of the payment plan (as above), under which they are subject to 10 such payments from a dubious loan agreement. The document instructs the victim to use 7-ELEVEN in order to facilitate this payment. These are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to IF Lendings. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to take out a loan from IF Lending. This loan was used to pay for unlawful education/trainings fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to IF Lending after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducts these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	Partial Payment Slip Used For Payment Of Unlawful Debts Incurred As A Result Of Human Trafficking And Forced Debt Bondage - 7
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has paid "NTD 9,563" to IF Lendings. This is part of the payment plan (as above), under which they are subject to 10 such payments from a dubious loan agreement. The document instructs the victim to use 7-ELEVEN in order to facilitate this payment. These are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to IF Lendings. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to take out a loan from IF Lending. This loan was used to pay for unlawful education/trainings fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to IF Lending after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducts these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	





	Certificate of Attendance at Pre-Departure Education Program
	  FOR OVERSEAS 
PRE-DEPARTURE ORIENTATION . 
or 
OVERSEAS 
COMPREHENSIVE EDUCATION 
FOR 
CERTIFICATE OF ATTENDANCE 
Country of 
Ag"ey 
MANDARIN - 
_ so. 17%9779795 
tant 
• Ltd 
: MANPOWER 
ATTY. EPEL" A.   
	Importance:
A certificate given to a migrant worker, who has attended an education prior to leaving the Philippines. Migrant workers are forced to attend unnecessary education programs such as these, as a guise for the agency to charge extra and excessive fees. Similar excessive fees may be leveraged under the label of 'examination' or 'medical' fees, but have no legal justification. In order to cover these payments, a migrant worker will be required to take out a loan. This then enables the lender to charge excessive fees resulting in significant debts, which can lead to debt bondage and facilitate human trafficking.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by IF Lending to attend a 'comprehensive pre-departure education program'.
	

Conclusion:
In conclusion, IF Lending has utilised the QR payment services of 7-ELEVEN in order to collect payments at a significant rate. However, these payments are unlawful debts, payments are procured as a result of unclear contracts and unreasonable payment demands, trapping workers in exploitative arrangements via leveraging these debts and other scare tactics, including threats of legal proceedings, and blackmail, against at least 10,000 vulnerable victims. When IF Lending requires their victims to use their payment facilities in order to pay off these debts, 7-ELEVEN aiding in these debts being collected. Subsequently, they likely are legally liable for them, and need to take action. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage. 
	





e. Case 4: Global Financial Consultant Co. Ltd. (Taiwan)[p] and E-Cash and Paylite Financing Inc. (Philippines)
	Summary of Case: This case is analogous to b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines).


Global Financial Consultant Co. Lt (Taiwan), ("Global Financial") and E-Cash and Paylite Financing Inc ("E-Cash and Paylite") use 7-ELEVEN to collect unlawful debts incurred as a result of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debts are as a result of loans granted to prospective workers who are unlawfully forced, tricked and coerced into obtaining them in order to finance illegal migration related fees, which are unlawful on various accounts including excessive interest fees, and imposing illegal arrangements requiring victims to undergo training/examinations only from designated institutions.


Among other concerns, Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite use 7-ELEVEN to:


                                                                           1. Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection activities by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.


Legal Implications: In effect, 7-ELEVEN is acting as a payment processor for human trafficking and debt bondage syndicates. As a result, 7-ELEVEN is arguably aiding in the commission of human trafficking and debt bondage activities and could be subject to criminal proceedings or asset forfeture.


                                                                           * As an accessory, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for the act of human trafficking and debt bondage activities to pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of China.


                                                                           * 7-ELEVEN likely receives money, revenue, or other benefits as a result of handling payments for Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. These benefits may include the cash that 7-ELEVEN receives before transferring it to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite, the increased foot traffic and thus increase sales that 7-ELEVEN generates, and other tangible and intangible benefits. Because 7-ELEVEN is generating these benefits as a result of aiding a human trafficking and debt bondage syndicate, 7-ELEVEN may be subject to asset forfeiture in accordance with the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention Act and more general criminal and civil statutes.


Ubiquity of scheme: 


                                                                           * At least 10 victims have been identified and sought advice in dealing with the consequences of these loans.
                                                                           * Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite are the primary lending and collection entity that places tens of thousands of migrant workers in situations of internationally prohibited debt bondage and human trafficking


        
Typology:




  

Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 1
	 
 7-E±EVEn 
service Line : 02.26082528 
Num&r : 
- service staff: ARI.VN (0904-269-850) 
Natne Of institution: Global Financial Consultant Co.Ltd. 
Installment: 1 
Payment Date: 2020/03/05 
Amount: NTS 7744 
Reminder: Please pay on time. Must ask for the receipt ofyour payment from the convenient 
"ore, and keep the payment receipt With this barcode slip for future reference. 
Customet•s  

 
	Importance:
This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 7744”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 2
	 
 7-ELEUEn 
Ms Ell-IO DERIS 
Sean, 
nent Stub 
Name of insuruuonJ Ecash and Paylitc Financing. Inc Manila. PhilippmcS 
Installment: 
Payment Date: 2018/08/05 
Amount: NTS 7744 
the dip  

 
	Importance:
This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 7744”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 3
	 
 PAUL FRANCIS DERIS 
101022 
.untNo. 
st.": ARI.Y> 
avment Stub 
Same Of institution: Ecash and Paylite Financing. Inc. Manila. Philippines 
Installment: 3 
Payment Date: 2018/10/05 
Amount: NTS 7744 
Reminder: pa' time. for the receipt o' from the 
store. and keep the pa' ment receipt •ith this barcode slip for future reference.  

 
	Importance:
This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, the 3rd payment of the amount of “NT$ 7744”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 4
	 
 PAUL FRANCIS FILIO DERIS 
I Letc 
sun: 
lent Stub 
01 tnsutuuon; Ecash and Paylite Financing. Ine 
Installment: 4 
Payment Date: 2018/11/05 
Amount: NTS 5426 
Reminder: pay the receipt of from 
"d keep the "ith dip  

 
	Importance:
This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit monthly payments - here, the 4th payment at the amount of “NT$ 5426”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 5
	 
 TELEVEn 
'lent Stub 
Installment: 5 tm 
Payment Date: 2018/12/05 
Amount: VIS 5426 
MULTIPURPOSE  

 
	Importance:
This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit monthly payments - here, the 5th payment at the amount of “NT$ 5426”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 6
	 
  

 
	Importance:
This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit monthly payments - here, the 9th payment at the amount of “NT$ 5426”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 7
	 
  

 
	Importance:
This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit monthly payments - here, the 12th payment at the amount of “NT$ 5426”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
  
Payment Stubs Including Receipts Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 9
	 
  

 
	Importance: These payment slips show that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit monthly payments - here, the 1st, 3rd and 4th payments at the amount of “NT$ 6534”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 10
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit monthly payments - here, the 10th payment at the amount of “NT$ 5955”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 


Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 11
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit monthly payments - here, the 8th payment at the amount of “NT$ 5955”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Global Financial and E-Cash and Payliteafter arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	



Conclusion:
Therefore, Global Financial and E-Cash and Paylite utilise the payment services of 7-ELEVEN in order to collect payments at a significant rate. However, these payments are unlawful debts, due to the fact that they have arisen as a result of requiring workers to take out loans in order to over illegal agency fees, such as excessive documentation or medical fees. These payments trap workers in exploitative arrangements, including human trafficking. When these groups require their victims to use their payment facilities when paying these debts, 7-ELEVEN aiding in these debts being collected, and subsequently is likely legally liable for them. For this, it is demanded that they take some form of action. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage.


	



f. Case 5: Family Financial Management Consultant Co. Ltd (Taiwan) and Agency-Lender Syndicates in Philippines Including I-Cash Express Lending Corporation
	Summary of Case: This case is analogous to b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines). 


Family Financial Management Consultant Co. Ltd ("Family Financial") and other Agency-Lender Syndicates including I-Cash Express Lending Corporation ("I-Cash Express") use 7-ELEVEN to collect unlawful debts incurred as a result of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debts are as a result of loans granted to prospective workers who are unlawfully forced, tricked and coerced into obtaining them in order to finance illegal migration related fees, which are unlawful on various accounts including excessive interest fees, and imposing illegal arrangements requiring victims to undergo training/examinations only from designated institutions.


Among other concerns, Family Financial and I-Cash Express use 7-ELEVEN to:
                                                                           1. Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection activities by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.




Legal Implications: In effect, 7-ELEVEN is acting as a payment processor for human trafficking and debt bondage syndicates. As a result, 7-ELEVEN is arguably aiding in the commission of human trafficking and debt bondage activities and could be subject to criminal proceedings or asset forfeture.
                                                                           * As an accessory, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for the act of human trafficking and debt bondage activities to pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of China.


                                                                           * 7-ELEVEN likely receives money, revenue, or other benefits as a result of handling payments for Family Financial and I-Cash Express. These benefits may include the cash that 7-ELEVEN receives before transferring it to Family Financial and I-Cash Express, the increased foot traffic and thus increase sales that 7-ELEVEN generates, and other tangible and intangible benefits. Because 7-ELEVEN is generating these benefits as a result of aiding a human trafficking and debt bondage syndicate, 7-ELEVEN may be subject to asset forfeiture in accordance with the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention Act and more general criminal and civil statutes.


Typology:




  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:
 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 1
	  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 7361” - and identifies 7-ELEVEN as the first of their 'authorised payment outlets', encouraging the victim to utilise their services, which the victim has done so. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Family Financial and I-Cash Express.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Family Financial and I-Cash Express. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Family Financial and I-Cash Express after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 2
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 7361”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Family Financial and I-Cash Express.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Family Financial and I-Cash Express. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Family Financial and I-Cash Express after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 


 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 3
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 7361”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Family Financial and I-Cash Express.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Family Financial and I-Cash Express. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Family Financial and I-Cash Express after arrival in Taiwan. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 4
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 7361”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Family Financial and I-Cash Express.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Family Financial and I-Cash Express. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Family Financial and I-Cash Express. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 5
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 5828”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Family Financial and I-Cash Express.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Family Financial and I-Cash Express. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Family Financial and I-Cash Express. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 6
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 5793”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Family Financial and I-Cash Express.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Family Financial and I-Cash Express. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Family Financial and I-Cash Express. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 7
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 5793”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Family Financial and I-Cash Express.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Family Financial and I-Cash Express. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Family Financial and I-Cash Express. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 


Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 8
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 5793”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Family Financial and I-Cash Express.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Family Financial and I-Cash Express. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Family Financial and I-Cash Express. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	



Conclusion:
Therefore, Family Financial and I-Cash Express utilise the payment services of 7-ELEVEN in order to collect payments at a significant rate. However, these payments are unlawful debts, involving employment agencies requiring workers to take out loans in order to cover illegal agency fees, such as excessive documentation or medical fees. These payments trap workers in exploitative arrangements, including human trafficking. When these groups require their victims to use their payment facilities when paying these debts, 7-ELEVEN aiding in these debts being collected, and subsequently is likely legally liable for them. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30, notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. For this, it is demanded that they take some form of action. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage.
	________________


g. Case 6: Collection Syndicates in Taiwan and Good Future Lending Phils. Corp. (Philippines)
	Summary of Case: This case is analogous to b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines).


Collection Syndicates in Taiwan and Good Future Lending Phils. Corp. ("Good Future") use 7-ELEVEN to collect unlawful debts incurred as a result of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debts are as a result of loans granted to prospective workers who are unlawfully forced, tricked and coerced into obtaining them in order to finance illegal migration related fees, which are unlawful on various accounts including excessive interest fees, and imposing illegal arrangements requiring victims to undergo training/examinations only from designated institutions.


Among other concerns, Collection Syndicates in Taiwan and Good Future use 7-ELEVEN to:
                                                                           * Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage.


                                                                           * These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection activities by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.


Legal Implications: In effect, 7-ELEVEN is acting as a payment processor for human trafficking and debt bondage syndicates. As a result, 7-ELEVEN is arguably aiding in the commission of human trafficking and debt bondage activities and could be subject to criminal proceedings or asset forfeture.


                                                                           * As an accessory, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for the act of human trafficking and debt bondage activities to pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of China.


                                                                           * 7-ELEVEN likely receives money, revenue, or other benefits as a result of handling payments for Good Future. These benefits may include the cash that 7-ELEVEN receives before transferring it to Good Future, the increased foot traffic and thus increase sales that 7-ELEVEN generates, and other tangible and intangible benefits. Because 7-ELEVEN is generating these benefits as a result of aiding a human trafficking and debt bondage syndicate, 7-ELEVEN may be subject to asset forfeiture in accordance with the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention Act and more general criminal and civil statutes.


Typology:




  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Payment Slips Including Receipts Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 1
	  

 
	Importance: These payment slips and receipts show that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments of $7,772. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to Good Future.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from Good Future. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Good Future. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




Receipt For Attendance At Training and Assessment Centre
	  

 
	Importance: A receipt given to a migrant worker, who has attended a training and assessment centre prior to leaving to work abroad. Migrant workers are forced to attend unnecessary education programmes such as these without having a choice of provider, as a guise for the agency to be able to charge extra and excessive fees. Similar fees may be imposed under the label of 'examination' or 'medical' fees, but also have no legal justification. In order to cover these payments, a migrant worker will be required to take out a loan. This then enables the lender to charge excessive fees resulting in significant debts, which can lead to debt bondage and facilitate human trafficking. 7-ELEVEN then facilitates the repayment of these loans via its payment processing services. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by Good Future to attend a 'comprehensive pre-departure education program'.
	



Conclusion:
Therefore, Good Future utilise the payment services of 7-ELEVEN in order to collect payments at a significant rate. However, these payments are unlawful debts, due to the fact that they have arisen as a result of requiring workers to take out loans in order to cover illegal agency fees, such as excessive documentation or medical fees. These payments trap workers in exploitative arrangements, including human trafficking. When Good Future requires or directs their victims to use 7-ELEVEN's payment facilities to pay, 7-ELEVEN aiding in these debts being collected, and subsequently is likely legally liable for them. For this, it is demanded that they take some form of action. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage.
	________________


h. Case 7: JumpJet Lending (Philippines) Key-Cash (Philippines) and Leader International Corporation syndicate (Taiwan)
	Summary of Case: This case is analogous to b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines).


In summary, JumpJet Lending Company Incorporated ("JumpJet"), Key-Cash and Leader International Corporation Syndicate ("Leader") use 7-ELEVEN to collect unlawful debts incurred as a result of human trafficking and forced debt bondage.These debts are often incurred as a result of illegal employment agencies forcing migrant workers to obtain loans to pay illegal agency fees. These illegal agency fees are sometimes camouflaged as medical examination fees, training fees, documentation fees, or miscellaneous fees. Regardless of how they are labeled, there is no legal justification for these fees and the resulting debt.

Among other concerns, JumpJet, Key-Cash and Leader International use 7-ELEVEN to:


Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection sdyndictes by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.


Legal Implications:


In effect, 7-ELEVEN is acting as a payment processor for human trafficking and debt bondage syndicates. As a result, 7-ELEVEN is arguably aiding in the commission of human trafficking and debt bondage activities and could be subject to criminal proceedings or asset forfeture.


                                                                           * As an accessory, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for the act of human trafficking and debt bondage activities to pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of China.

                                                                           * 7-ELEVEN likely receives money, revenue, or other benefits as a result of handling payments for JumpJet etc. These benefits may include the cash that 7-ELEVEN receives before transferring it to JumpJet, the increased foot traffic and thus increase sales that 7-ELEVEN generates, and other tangible and intangible benefits. Because 7-ELEVEN is generating these benefits as a result of aiding a human trafficking and debt bondage syndicate, 7-ELEVEN may be subject to asset forfeiture in accordance with the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention Act and more general criminal and civil statutes.


Typology:[q]


  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:




Payment Slips Including Receipts Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 1
	 
  

 
	Importance: These payment slips and receipts show that a migrant worker has been subject to at least 4 monthly payments of $6705. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to JumpJet.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from JumpJet. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to JumpJet. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Payment Slips Including Receipts Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 2
	 
  

 
	Importance: These payment slips and receipts show that a migrant worker has been subject to at least 4 monthly payments of $6705. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to JumpJet.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from JumpJet. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to JumpJet. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Payment Slips Including Receipts Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 3
	  
 
	Importance: These payment slips and receipts show that a migrant worker has been subject to at least 2 monthly payments of $6705. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to JumpJet.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from JumpJet. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to JumpJet. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Payment Slips Including Receipts Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 4
	    
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,705”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to JumpJet.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from JumpJet. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to JumpJet. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Payment Slips Including Receipts Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 5
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,705”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to JumpJet.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from JumpJet. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to JumpJet. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	



Conclusion:
Therefore, JumpJet utilise the payment services of 7-ELEVEN in order to collect payments at a significant rate. However, these payments are unlawful debts, due to the fact that they have arisen as a result of requiring workers to take out loans in order to over illegal agency fees, such as excessive documentation or medical fees. These payments trap workers in exploitative arrangements, including human trafficking. When JumpJet requires or directs their victims to use 7-ELEVEN's payment facilities to pay, 7-ELEVEN aiding in these debts being collected, and subsequently is likely legally liable for them. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. For this, it is demanded that they take some form of action. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage. 
	________________


i. Case 8: Key Cash & Paylite Lending, Inc. Syndicate
[r]	
Summary of Case: This case is analogous to b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines).


In summary, Key Cash & Paylite Lending, Inc. Syndicate use 7-ELEVEN to collect unlawful debts incurred as a result of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debts are often incurred as a result of illegal employment agencies forcing migrant workers to obtain loans to pay illegal agency fees. These illegal agency fees are sometimes camouflaged as medical examination fees, training fees, documentation fees, or miscellaneous fees. Regardless of how they are labeled, there is no legal justification for these fees and the resulting debt.


Among other concerns, KeyCash & Paylite use 7-ELEVEN to:


                                                                              1. Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection activities by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.


Legal Implications: In effect, 7-ELEVEN is acting as a payment processor for human trafficking and debt bondage syndicates. As a result, 7-ELEVEN is arguably aiding in the commission of human trafficking and debt bondage activities and could be subject to criminal proceedings or asset forfeture.


                                                                              * As an accessory, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for the act of human trafficking and debt bondage activities to pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of China.

                                                                              * 7-ELEVEN likely receives money, revenue, or other benefits as a result of handling payments for KeyCash & PayLite. These benefits may include the cash that 7-ELEVEN receives before transferring it to KeyCash & PayLite, the increased foot traffic and thus increase sales that 7-ELEVEN generates, and other tangible and intangible benefits. Because 7-ELEVEN is generating these benefits as a result of aiding a human trafficking and debt bondage syndicate, 7-ELEVEN may be subject to asset forfeiture in accordance with the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention Act and more general criminal and civil statutes.


Typology:






  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Conclusion:
Therefore, Key Cash & Paylite utilise the payment services of 7-ELEVEN in order to collect payments at a significant rate. However, these payments are unlawful debts, due to the fact that they have arisen as a result of requiring workers to take out loans in order to over illegal agency fees, such as excessive documentation or medical fees. These payments trap workers in exploitative arrangements, including human trafficking. When Key Cash & Paylite requires or directs their victims to use 7-ELEVEN's payment facilities to pay, 7-ELEVEN aiding in these debts being collected, and subsequently is likely legally liable for them. For this, it is demanded that they take some form of action. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage. 
	________________


j. Case 9: King Ping Lending Company Syndicate
	Summary of Case: This case is analogous to b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines).


In summary, King Ping Lending Company Syndicate (“King Ping”) use 7-ELEVEN to collect unlawful debts incurred as a result of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debts are often incurred as a result of illegal employment agencies forcing migrant workers to obtain loans to pay illegal agency fees. These illegal agency fees are sometimes camouflaged as medical examination fees, training fees, documentation fees, or miscellaneous fees. Regardless of how they are labeled, there is no legal justification for these fees and the resulting debt.

Among other concerns, King Ping uses 7-ELEVEN to:


Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection sdyndictes by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.


Legal Implications: In effect, 7-ELEVEN is acting as a payment processor for human trafficking and debt bondage syndicates. As a result, 7-ELEVEN is arguably aiding in the commission of human trafficking and debt bondage activities and could be subject to criminal proceedings or asset forfeture.


                                                                                 * As an accessory, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for the act of human trafficking and debt bondage activities to pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of China.


                                                                                 * 7-ELEVEN likely receives money, revenue, or other benefits as a result of handling payments for KeyCash & PayLite. These benefits may include the cash that 7-ELEVEN receives before transferring it to KingPing, the increased foot traffic and thus increase sales that 7-ELEVEN generates, and other tangible and intangible benefits. Because 7-ELEVEN is generating these benefits as a result of aiding a human trafficking and debt bondage syndicate, 7-ELEVEN may be subject to asset forfeiture in accordance with the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention Act and more general criminal and civil statutes.




Typology:


  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 1
	  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,600”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 






























Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 2
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,600”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 






















Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 2
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,600”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 






















Payment Slips Including Receipts Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 3
	

  

	Importance: These payment slips and receipts show that a migrant worker has been subject to at least 8 monthly payments of $6600. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 4
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,600”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 5
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,600”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 6
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,600”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 






























Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 7
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,600”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 






















Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 8
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,600”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 9
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,600”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 






























Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 10
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,600”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to King Ping.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from King Ping. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to King Ping. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	



Conclusion:
Therefore, King Ping utilizes the payment services of 7-ELEVEN in order to collect payments at a significant rate. However, these payments are towards unlawful debts, due to the fact that they have arisen as a result of requiring workers to take out loans in order to cover illegal agency fees, such as excessive documentation or medical fees. These payments trap workers in exploitative arrangements, including human trafficking. When King Ping requires or directs their victims to use 7-ELEVEN's payment facilities to pay, 7-ELEVEN aiding in these debts being collected, and subsequently is likely legally liable for them. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. For this, it is demanded that they take some form of action. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage.
	________________


k. Case 10: VIP Cash Lending Corporation Syndicate
	Summary of Case: This case is analogous to b. Case 1: Grand Fusion International Co. Ltd. (Taiwan) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines).


In summary, the VIP Cash Lending Syndicate (“VIP Cash”) use 7-ELEVEN to collect unlawful debts incurred as a result of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debts are often incurred as a result of illegal employment agencies forcing migrant workers to obtain loans to pay illegal agency fees. These illegal agency fees are sometimes camouflaged as medical examination fees, training fees, documentation fees, or miscellaneous fees. Regardless of how they are labeled, there is no legal justification for these fees and the resulting debt.

Among other concerns, VIP Cash uses 7-ELEVEN to:


Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection sdyndictes by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.


Legal Implications: In effect, 7-ELEVEN is acting as a payment processor for human trafficking and debt bondage syndicates. As a result, 7-ELEVEN is arguably aiding in the commission of human trafficking and debt bondage activities and could be subject to criminal proceedings or asset forfeture.


                                                                                 * As an accessory, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for the act of human trafficking and debt bondage activities to pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of China.

                                                                                 * 7-ELEVEN likely receives money, revenue, or other benefits as a result of handling payments for VIP Cash. These benefits may include the cash that 7-ELEVEN receives before transferring it to VIP Cash, the increased foot traffic and thus increase sales that 7-ELEVEN generates, and other tangible and intangible benefits. Because 7-ELEVEN is generating these benefits as a result of aiding a human trafficking and debt bondage syndicate, 7-ELEVEN may be subject to asset forfeiture in accordance with the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention Act and more general criminal and civil statutes.




Typology:


  





Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 1
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,076”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to VIP Cash.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from VIP Cash. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to VIP Cash. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 




Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 2
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,076”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to VIP Cash.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from VIP Cash. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to VIP Cash. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 


Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 3
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,076”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to VIP Cash.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from VIP Cash. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to VIP Cash. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 


Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 4
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments - here, in the amount of “NT$ 6,076”. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to VIP Cash.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from VIP Cash. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to VIP Cash. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




























































 
Payment Stub Including Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 5
	 
  

 
	Importance: This payment slip shows that a migrant worker has been subject to illicit payments. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to VIP Cash.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds.
Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken any proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Basic AML/CFT monitoring systems appear to be absent, despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN processes millions of dollars worth of payments each year. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from VIP Cash. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to VIP Cash. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 


























































































 
Receipt Showing Human Trafficking And Debt Bondage Related Payment Made Via 7-ELEVEN’s Financial Services and Barcode Payment Systems - 1
	 
  

 
	Importance: 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are explicitly outlawed by the Taiwan Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year and has taken no material action to combat the illicit transactions to VIP Cash.
7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from VIP Cash. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees in the Philippines. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to VIP Cash. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
 
Payment Instructions From VIP Cash
	 
  

 
	Importance: These screenshots involve a member of staff working for VIP Cash. They demand that the payment is made on time, making threats such as late fees and court letters if this is not done. Such threats likely violate Taiwan’s Human Trafficking Prevention and Control Act due to the threatening language. 
	Source: A Filipino migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced to get a loan from Grand Fusion and HOYA. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	



Conclusion:
In conclusion, VIP Cash utilise the payment services of 7-ELEVEN in order to collect payments at a significant rate. However, these payments are unlawful debts, due to the fact that they have arisen as a result of requiring workers to take out loans in order to cover illegal agency fees, such as excessive documentation or medical fees. These payments trap workers in exploitative arrangements, including human trafficking. When these groups require their victims to use their payment facilities when paying these debts, 7-ELEVEN aiding in these debts being collected, and subsequently is likely legally liable for. For this, it is demanded that they take some form of action. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. 7-ELEVEN’s involvement may therefore amount to them being considered a Principal/Joint Offender, and therefore in violation of Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China. This may be due to them ‘acting jointly’ with the lender, under Section 28, or ‘aiding in the commission’ of the offence, under Section 30 notwithstanding that 7-ELEVEN did not know of the assistance. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage.
	________________


i. Similar Schemes
	Summary of Case:


Legal Implications:


Typology:


Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Conclusion:
	________________


Section 4
(4) Human Trafficking Activity Involving Hong Kong SAR


This section contains the following:


a. Hong Kong SAR Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework and International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards 


b. Case 1: Niaga Finance Company Limited (Hong Kong SAR) and CASH4U Financing Corporation (Philippines)


c. Case 2: Carry You (HK) Service Limited (Hong Kong SAR) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines)


d. Case 3: Mutual Honour (Hong Kong) Limited


e. Case 4: Toyo Finance and Credit Limited


f. Similar Schemes




a. Hong Kong SAR Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework and International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards
	Hong Kong SAR Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework: [s][t][u]




According to Article 3(a) of the “Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime” (Palermo Protocol), trafficking in persons (TIP) is defined as[v]:


“The recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of persons, by means of the threat or use of force or other forms of coercion, of abduction, of fraud, of deception, of the abuse of power or of a position of vulnerability or of the giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another person, for the purpose of exploitation, which shall include, at a minimum, the exploitation of the prostitution of others or other forms of sexual exploitation, forced labour or services, slavery or practices similar to slavery, servitude or the removal of organs.”


Hong Kong SAR addresses TIP through various pieces of local legislation. The conduct of TIP as defined in the Palermo Protocol is covered and effectively prohibited by various pieces of legislation.


The Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 200) 
Prohibits the trafficking of persons to or from Hong Kong for - 
                                                                                    * the purpose of prostitution; 
                                                                                    * harbouring another person or exercising control or direction over another person for the purpose of that person’s prostitution or that that person shall do unlawful sexual acts with others; 
                                                                                    * and any person from procuring another person to become a prostitute or cause prostitution of that person in Hong Kong or elsewhere. 
The Crimes Ordinance also prohibits other crimes including rape, procuring another person by threats to do unlawful sexual acts with others and criminal intimidation. 
Moreover, there are provisions under the Crimes Ordinance that provide extra-territorial effect against certain sexual offences committed against children outside Hong Kong, including related arrangements and advertisements, making them punishable in Hong Kong.
The Human Organ Transplant Ordinance (Cap. 465) 
Prohibits commercial dealings in human organs.










Prevention of Child Pornography Ordinance (Cap. 579) 
Prohibits printing, making, producing, reproducing, copying, importing or exporting, publishing and possessing child pornography.


Immigration Ordinance (Cap. 115) 
Prohibits arrangement for an unauthorised entrant to Hong Kong and employing illegal workers;


Employment Ordinance (Cap. 57) 
Imposes criminal liability on employers involved in non-payment, under-payment of wages or delay in payment of wages, failure to grant rest days and statutory holidays to employees.


Other relevant ordinances 
Prohibit such crimes as assault, forcible taking or detention of persons with intent to sell him or her, child abduction, deception and blackmail, etc.


The most serious penalty for the above offences is life imprisonment. This ‘multiple-legislation’ approach provides law enforcement agencies (LEAs) and prosecutors with more flexibility in investigating and prosecuting TIP cases.
The UN Migration Agency, acting as the secretariat for the Hong Kong SAR Civil Society Anti-Trafficking Task Force, also launched a Handbook on Initial Victim Identification and Assistance for Trafficked Persons. This is a major step in anti-trafficking efforts, as it identifies concrete guidelines and resources for front-line social services, anti-trafficking, labour and other organisations. The handbook is aimed at a number of people including government agencies, NGOs, public health professionals, social workers, lawyers and others who could encounter victims during their work. Additionally, 1037 potential victims underwent preliminary screening and a further 63 were identified as victims of trafficking. 


International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards:


Human trafficking is defined as “the recruitment, transport, transfer, harbouring or receipt of a person by such means as threat or use of force or other forms of coercion, abduction, fraud or deception for the purpose of exploitation.”


The Recommended Principles and Guidelines on Human Rights and Human Trafficking was developed by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. It provides practical, rights-based approach policy guidance on the prevention of trafficking and the protection of trafficked persons with a view to facilitate the integration of a human rights perspective into national, regional and international anti-trafficking laws, policies and interventions.


There are several guidelines or steps that are to be taken for the protection of human rights and the prevention of human trafficking.
                                                                                    * Promotion and protection of human rights;
                                                                                    * Identification of trafficked persons and traffickers;
                                                                                    * Research, analysis, evaluation and dissemination;
                                                                                    * Ensuring an adequate legal framework;
                                                                                    * Ensuring an adequate law enforcement response;
                                                                                    * Protection and support for trafficked persons;
                                                                                    * Preventing trafficking;
                                                                                    * Special measures for the protection and support of child victims of trafficking;
                                                                                    * Access to remedies;
                                                                                    * Obligations of peacekeepers, civilian police and humanitarian and diplomatic personnel; and
                                                                                    * Cooperation and coordination between States and regions.


Source: Recommended Principles and Guidelines on Human Rights and Human Trafficking.


Hong Kong SAR Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework:
Existing legal framework:
Whilst Hong Kong has laws which prohibit certain forms of conduct related to trafficking in persons, there are no specific offences under Hong Kong Law for labour-related human trafficking, nor is Hong Kong a party to the Palermo Protocol.
As of now, existing offences prohibit trafficking of persons for the purpose of prostitution, chattel slavery, commercial dealings in human organs, and the arrangement for an unauthorised entrant to Hong Kong. As with other jurisdictions, offences against the person include crimes such as assault, forcible taking or detention of persons with intent to sell him or her, child abduction, deception, blackmail and more. Separate to its indirect provisions against trafficking in persons, Hong Kong labour laws impose criminal liability upon employers involved in non-payment, under-payment of wages or delay in payment of wages, failure to grant rest days and statutory holidays to employees. According to the Hong Kong Government, these disparate offences are sufficient on its own to cover all forms of trafficking in person.
Worse still, in ZN v Secretary for Justice & Others the Courts have refused to interpret Article 4 of the Hong Kong Bill of Rights to prohibit human trafficking generally for exploitation, servitude and forced or compulsory labour. Article 4 of the Hong Kong Bill of rights, which is modelled after Article 8 of the ICCPR, provides:
(1)   No one shall be held in slavery; slavery and the slave-trade in all their forms shall be prohibited
(2)   No one shall be held in servitude
(3)   (a) No one shall be required to perform forced or compulsory labour
The Court held the Bill of Rights excludes from its remit the prohibition of human trafficking for exploitation generally, because the concepts of “slavery” “servitude” and “forced labour” refer to the substantive conduct rather than the processes of trafficking, even if trafficking is for these very purposes.
Furthermore, the Court reaffirmed the Government’s position, holding that the government has no duty to enact new legislation for a criminal offence against forced labour, because the indirect employment and trafficking-related provisions are sufficient to meet the requirements of the Bill of Rights.
Criticism of the existing legal framework:
Contrary to the Government’s position, law enforcement officers, lawyers, and NGOs who have handled cases of trafficking in persons strongly disagree about the sufficiency of the existing indirect provisions in combatting human trafficking.
 
The nature of human trafficking in Hong Kong:
Unlike what the Government and Courts seem to assume, the large majority of human trafficking activity in Hong Kong occurs in the context of employment.
Future prospects for reform:
At first glance, it appears there are little prospects for legislative reform especially after the Crimes (Amendment) (Modern Slavery) Bill 2019, which is modelled on the Modern Slavery Act 2015 in the UK, failed to be passed into law as of September 2019. Amongst other things which brings Hong Kong laws in line with international standards, the unsuccessful Bill would have:
-        introduced an offense prohibiting “slavery, servitude, and forced or compulsory labour”,
-        widened the definition of “human trafficking” in Section 129 of the Crimes Ordinance to include other forms of criminal exploitation, and
-        provided powers to the authorities to intervene in accounts and proceeds related to slavery and human trafficking under Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap 455).
However, it is clear that significant progress has been made since. For instance, law enforcement has indicated a move away from denial. Unlike previous dismissal of reports which indicate Hong Kong is a destination and transit point for human trafficking, law enforcement is actively conducting investigations and following leads. As a result, in August 2020, law enforcement successfully busted a criminal syndicate which smuggled people into Hong Kong for prostitution, labour, and illegal activities, and arrested more than 100 people in relation to the case.
Furthermore, the wider private sector has increasingly taken issue to its contributions to the human trafficking supply chain, and have committed to transparency and accountability in an effort to ensure its eradication. For instance, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange updated its Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) disclosure requirements for all listed companies in Hong Kong. Following this, all listed companies would be required to make general disclosures on matters such as prevention of forced and child labour in its supply chains, the adoption of requisite employment practices and elimination policies, for financial years commencing on or after 1 July 2020. Additionally, the high standards of the anti-money laundering regime in Hong Kong have also included modern slavery considerations into their evaluations in recent years. These developments increase pressure on the Hong Kong Government to legislate for specific human trafficking offenses in the near future.
In March 2018, the then Secretary for Security – now Chief Executive – John Lee, issued the Action Plan to Tackle Trafficking in Persons and to Enhance Protection of Foreign Domestic Helpers in Hong Kong. Despite falling short of statutory reform, the scheme…
Most promisingly, a trafficking-related case has once again appeared before the Court of First Instance, allowing for the common law position to be reconsidered upon appeal. In AM v Director of Immigration and Others, and CB v Secretary for Justice and Others, Hon Coleman J challenged ZN and held the Government has the duty to legislate against forced labour given the overwhelming benefits it poses.
What does this mean for 7-ELEVEN?
Presently, 




	

________________




a. Case 1: Niaga Finance Company Limited (Hong Kong SAR) and CASH4U Financing Corporation (Philippines)
	Summary of Case: 


In summary, Niaga Finance Company Limited (Hong Kong SAR) and CASH4U Financing Corporation (Philippines) use 7-ELEVEN to collect unlawful debts incurred as a result of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debts are often incurred as a result of illegal employment agencies forcing migrant workers to obtain loans to pay illegal agency fees. These illegal agency fees are sometimes camouflaged as medical examination fees, training fees, documentation fees, or miscellaneous fees. Regardless of how they are labeled, there is no legal justification for these fees and the resulting debt.

Among other concerns, Niaga Finance Company Limited (Hong Kong SAR) and CASH4U Financing Corporation (Philippines) uses 7-ELEVEN to:
                                                                                    * Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection sdyndictes by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.
                                                                                    * Collect excessive interest loans. 7-ELEVEN’s services are used by victims to pay their excessive interest loans from the companies Niaga and CASH4U. Charging excessive interest on loans is an indictable offense in Hong Kong. 7-ELEVEN could be held liable for money laundering because according to Hong Kong’s Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance (OSCO) it is an offence for any person to deal with any property, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that it represents proceeds of an indictable offence.

Legal Implications: 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards as they are processing payments for Niaga and CASH4U. Moreover, they could also be held liable for money laundering due to their processing activities of excessive loan interests.




Typology:


  
  

*It is noted that 7-Eleven (operated by Dairy Farm) has blocked QR code payments shortly after receiving information on the lending scheme.[w]


  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


                                                                                       1. 

  







Source [x]
Witness: Biri, Lailani Lebantino


  



Source: 
Witness: Herana, Lee Ealdama 
  



Source: 
Witness: Manulat, Rose Anne Umacob
Importance of the evidence above:
These examples of 7-Eleven involvement in this scheme by willfully accepted payments for Niaga Finance, a company that is engages in illicit behavior such as human trafficking, debt bondage and money laundering. In doing so, 7-ELEVEN, and potentially Dairy Farm, may be held liable for these offenses.


It is important to note that there are at least 114 other payments like these in recorded in the Annex (see the Niaga Binder and the Excel Sheet:Proof Of Payment Sheet (7-Eleven) )[y][z]
	Conclusion:[aa]
7-ELEVEN has stopped processing payments for Niaga after they had been provided with background information on Niaga’s illicit behaviour. Therefore, this case can be seen as an exemplary way of 7-ELEVEN to respond and tackle such an issue. Nonetheless, 7-ELEVEN should not wait to be provided with reports but should also conduct their own due diligence to uncover such problems.  
	

________________






d. Case 3: Mutual Honour (Hong Kong) Limited and Ceazar Pacific Money Lending Co. Ltd.[ab]
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Gty-vYEO4JIEQB8e0Jlifvs2U2WMeCgd/view?usp=sharing
hello -aho 
wah!- :<


Summary of Case: 


Mutual Honour (Hong Kong) Limited (“Mutual Honour”) has been assigned loans by Ceazar Pacific Money Lending Co. Ltd. (“Ceazar”), a money lending company in the Philippines. Ceazar entered into loan agreements with borrowers and then assigned such loans to Mutual Honour. However, Ceazar’s money lending licence in the Philippines has been revoked since 21 June 2017. By engaging with an unlicensed money lender from the Philippines, Mutual Honour has failed to discharge its duty under the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance
and the Anti-Money Laundering Guidelines.


Mutual Honour does not operate as a money lender in Hong Kong SAR, as its business operations are limited to enforcing foreign loans purchased from Ceazar. Since it would be unprofitable and illogical for the financially negligible transactions between Ceazar and Mutual Honour to serve as Mutual Honour’s only source of profit, it strongly indicates that Mutual Honour and Ceazar are in fact one single economic entity which profits from illegitimate gains through ‘u-turn’ transactions.


The illicit behavior of Mutual Honour has been ongoing for nearly 10 years. It is estimated that Mutual Honour has been involved in collecting over HK$60,000,000 in illicit loan proceeds victimizing over 6,000 foriegn domestic workers.


Legal Implications: 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards by processing payments for Mutual Honour and Ceazar Pacific Money Lending Co. Ltd. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. 


Typology: (See Mutual Honour Binder)[ac]






Examples of Illegal Activities related to Human Trafficking:






	Page 47 of List of Existing Money Lenders Licensees (as at 30 June 2022) (in alphabetical order of English Name) published by the Companies Registry of Hong Kong
  



Correspondence with Mutual Honour which confirms reassignment of the benefit of the loan agreement from Ceazar Pacific and its accompanying Deed of Assignment of Receivables
  

  
  



Revocation of Ceazar Pacific Lending on Pages 1-2 and 6 of The Order of Revocation issued by the Corporate Governance and Finance Department of the Securities and Exchange Commission of the Philippines, dated 21 June 2017
  

  

  

	Significance: According to Exhibit 1, Mutual Honour is a licensed money lender (pending renewal) in Hong Kong. Furthermore, Mutual Honour has an apparent partnership with Ceazar Pacific Money Lending Co, Ltd (Ceazar) in the Philippines. It is understood that Mutual Honour’s written statements that Mutual Honour play a role in collecting loans granted by Ceazar. However, Mutual Honour’s engagement in activities and receipt of assigned loans from Ceazar is illegal since the money lender license of Ceazar was revoked on 5 June 2017.
	Source:
	





	  

	Significance: There appears to be a dubious relationship between Andrew B Cagang, the legal representative of Eastgate Manpower Consultants Inc. and Lorna Cagang and Marilou who are reportedly the ultimate beneficial owners of Ceazar and Mutual Honour or their duly authorized employees/attorneys. This is important because the majority of the complainants against Mutual Honour have stated that they were directed to Ceazar by Eastgate Manpower Consultants Inc. or their affiliates. As you may be aware, it is generally unlawful - under both Hong Kong and Philippines law, for an employment agency to conspire with lending companies.
	

	





	Letter addressed to borrower with 7-Eleven Payment Card and address associated with the employment agency AsiaOne
  

Final Page of AsiaOne Employment Agency promotional materials containing addresses of their licensed offices  


	Significance: Mutual Honour has addressed letters to alleged borrowers by using the address “Room 801A, 8th floor, Hollywood Plaza, 610 Nathan Road, Mong Kok, Kowloon” which is not the working address of an alleged borrower but in fact a licensed office address of Asia-One Employment Agency. Again, as you should be aware, the Code of Practice for Employment Agencies forbids employment agencies from conspiring with money lenders and/or involving themselves in the financial affairs of job-seekers, something that Mutual Honour appears to be doing by addressing letters to an employment agency address rather the working address of a job-seeker.
	

	





	Pages 1, 4 and 8 of the Annual Return of Mutual Honour
  

  

  

	Significance: Mutual Honour has apparently defrauded the Companies Registry and more than likely the Commissioner of Police by submitting a suspected to be false residential address to the Companies Registry and in turn to the Commissioner of Police during the application for a money lenders license.
	

	



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


7-Eleven “Repayment Cards” containing barcodes used to pay illicit loans
	  

	Significance:
	Source:
	



Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 1
	  

	Importance: Example of 7-Eleven involvement in this scheme by willfully accepting payments for Mutual Honour despite being informed of the illicit behavior of Mutual Honour. 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. In doing so, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations and facilitating a money laundering and human trafficking scheme.
	Source: A foreign domestic worker who is a victim of the scheme.
	























Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 2
	  
  

	Importance: Example (with multiple receipts) of 7-Eleven involvement in this scheme by willfully accepting payments for Mutual Honour despite being informed of the illicit behavior of Mutual Honour. 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. In doing so, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations and facilitating a money laundering and human trafficking scheme.
	Source: A foreign domestic worker who is a victim of the scheme.
	



Conclusion: There is no excuse for 7-ELEVEN’s processing of payments for Toyo. Considering the voluminous reports, negative news, court judgements, and basic due diligence red flags, 7-ELEVEN appears to have not only facilitated human trafficking but also manifested a wholesale failure to conduct even the most basic due diligence to prevent human trafficking activities from occuring via 7-ELEVEN.


	



e. Case 4: TOYO Finance and Credit Limited[ad][ae] and Employment Agency Syndicates
	                                                                                       * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fM0R2yw771xYw6c4yqQ6sBljV8wOWxVOfhQSYyE_zDg/edit 


Summary of Case: TOYO Finance and Credit Limited (“Toyo”) conspires with employment agencies in Hong Kong SAR, Philippines, and Indonesian to entrap tens of thousands of migrant workers into situations of legally prohibited debt bondage, human trafficking, and modern slavery. Migrant workers are forced to incur debt conditioned upon their future employment through illegal agency fees disguised as training and medical fees. In the event the workers cannot pay upfront, they are referred to Toyo, where they are coerced into obtaining a loan. Toyo leverages 7-Eleven payment services in Hong Kong SAR in order to collect the proceeds of the illicit debt bondage, human trafficking, and modern slavery activities.

7-ELEVEN has been informed of the illicit activities of Toyo, but has not taken material action to stop the illicit activities.

Relevant News: Evidence put towards the Hong Kong Courts clearly point to 7-11’s involvement in allegedly illegal agency payments. For instance, in Razafindratsara, Ravaonirina Charline C. v. Raharja Group Ltd. [2018] HKCFI 1714, a migrant worker raised claims of excessive and illegal agency fees against their employment agency. In this case, the illegal payments were disguised as airfare ticket and visa processing fees. The claimant made periodic payments via 7-Eleven Convenience Stores, despite allegedly having no knowledge of the fact they were paying for a loan with Toyo. 


The human trafficking scheme bears many parallels with that of Niaga Finance Company Limited
These types of schemes are highly illegal and deserve immediate investigation attention by the appropriate authorities to track the flow of suspected crime proceeds and arrest those involved in the scheme and any subsequent handling of direct or indirect crime proceeds.
https://www.scmp.com/news/hong-kong/law-and-crime/article/3096183/hong-kong-police-bust-loan-shark-syndicate-targeted 


Legal Implications: 7-ELEVEN is dealing in the proceeds of human trafficking activities by accepting payments to Toyo via 7-ELEVEN Payment QR Codes and Barcodes. Considering that the activities of Toyo include both indictable offense and offenses under Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Human Trafficking Framework, 7-ELEVEN is dealing in the proceeds of human trafficking activities and facilitating the same.


Typology:


  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:




Payment schedule with repayment methods listed
	  

	Significance: This is an example of a payment schedule provided by Toyo which expressly refers to the role of 7-Eleven in repayment of their loans. Please see the accompanying “repayment cards” below which contain the barcodes used in 7-Eleven’s payment systems.
	Source: Foreign domestic workers who are victims of the scheme
	



7-Eleven “Repayment Cards” containing barcodes used to pay illicit loans
	  
  

	Significance: These are examples of 7-Eleven’s barcode payment system being actively used for illicit loan repayment reasons. 7-Eleven may be liable for aiding and abetting violations of the Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Despite being informed of Toyo’s problematic relationship with various employment agencies in Hong Kong SAR, Philippines, and Indonesia, 7-Eleven has continued to provide access to these barcodes to entities in schemes of debt bondage. 7-Eleven’s lack of scrutiny towards the legal entities, particularly businesses, who use their systems problematically allows these predatory regimes to continue in human trafficking and other illicit activities. 
	Source: Foreign domestic workers who are victims of the scheme
	



Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services w/ further confirmation from the recipient
	  
  

	Significance: This is an example of 7-Eleven processing payments that are repayments for an illegal loan that contributes to debt bondage of human trafficking victims.7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. 
	Source: A foreign domestic worker who was a victim of the scheme
	



Conclusion: There is no excuse for 7-ELEVEN’s processing of payments for Toyo. Considering the voluminous reports, negative news, court judgements, and basic due diligence red flags, 7-ELEVEN appears to have not only facilitated human trafficking but also manifested a wholesale failure to conduct even the most basic due diligence to prevent human trafficking activities from occuring via 7-ELEVEN.
	



e. Case 5: [af][ag]Ample Corporation Limited[ah] and Employment Agency Syndicates 
	Summary of Case: Ample Corporation Limited (“Ample”) conspires with employment agencies in Hong Kong SAR and Indonesian to entrap tens of thousands of migrant workers into situations of legally prohibited debt bondage, human trafficking, and modern slavery. Ample leverages 7-Eleven payment services in Hong Kong SAR in order to collect the proceeds of the illicit debt bondage, human trafficking, and modern slavery activities.

7-ELEVEN has been informed of these illicit activities by Ample, but has not taken material action to stop the illicit activities.

Relevant News:


Legal Implications:


Typology:
  

Examples of Ample’s Illegal Activities:


Known Victim’s Testimony to Police
	  

  



  

  

  

  



________________


                                                                                       1. I am Widia Fronika, a 32 year old from Indonesia. I received my education in Indonesia, completing up to a high school diploma equivalent. My mother tongue is Indonesian, which I can read and write fluently. I also speak English but do not know Chinese. I work as a domestic helper, and am filing a complaint against J C Casa Recruitment Agency (“JC”), for which I am now giving an oral testimony with the Labour Department. My oral testimony will be translated by court interpreter Ms Wong (C091) who will write in Traditional Chinese.

                                                                                       2. This is my first time working in Hong Kong as a domestic helper. I previously worked as a domestic helper in Singapore from 2015 to October 2019, when I completed my contract and returned to Indonesia.

                                                                                       3. In around October 2019 when I was still in Singapore, I was planning to work in Hong Kong. My friend introduced me to an application called Helper Library to find an employer in Hong Kong, so I downloaded it. I provided my personal data and CV, and communicated through the inbox feature of Helper Library. I contacted a Helper Library member of staff Ms Tari via Whatsapp - her phone number is 67691931. Using the inbox feature, Helper Library provided employers in Hong Kong for me to choose from, and I was told to contact the employer I choose directly using the inbox feature. At the time, I chose Ms. Choi Ming Ting (“Ms. Choi”), and I gave Ms. Choi my mobile phone number via the inbox feature. Around 3 days later, Ms. Choi used Whatsapp to contact me and we had a video interview. In around November 2019, Ms. Choi notified me via Whatsapp that she wished to hire me as a domestic helper in Hong Kong, and I accordingly accepted the employment offer. Around 3 days later, Ms. Tari asked me on Whatsapp whether I would accept Ms. Choi’s offer, to which I responded yes. Ms. Tari said my Hong Kong intermediary agency is called JC, and that staff at JC would contact me later to help me arrange my application to be a domestic helper in Hong Kong. Helper Library never received any fees from me.

                                                                                       4. In early November 2019, I received a Whatsapp from a lady called Sherly who claimed to be staff at JC. Her phone number was 60528395. She said Helper Library referred me to JC, which will manage my domestic helper application in Hong Kong. Sherly said my Indonesian training center [literally: training school] would be PT Armina Mitra Karya (“Armina”), and asked if I could go train at this center. I answered yes, and I asked how much it would cost for my domestic helper application in Hong Kong. Sherly replied that upon coming to Hong Kong, I would have to pay $3000 HKD for three months, but did not specify who to pay and how to pay, nor did I ask. Afterwards, I received a call from a Mr. Darmawan, staff of Armina, who told me I did not need to go to the Armina training center at all, and that Armina would help me to apply. He told me to give him a copy of my Indonesian ID and passport. I asked him how much my application to be a domestic helper in Hong Kong would cost, to which he responded I would need to pay around $3000 HKD for three months, and that when I arrive in Hong Kong, JC would bring me to arrange for this at the bank. I did not know whether the fees were for Armina or for JC, nor did I ask. I later gave a copy of my Indonesian ID and passport to Mr. Darmawan through Whatsapp. Additionally, in early November 2019, I received a Whatsapp message from a lady called Esther who claimed to be staff at JC. Her phone number is 90983849. She asked me to provide a copy of my passport and CV. I then provided the copy of my passport and CV to Esther, but I have now already deleted my Whatsapp message records with Esther. 

                                                                                       5. In mid-December 2019, Mr. Darmawan called me and said he would loan me 3,000,000 Indonesian rupiah, and asked me to personally buy a plane ticket from Indonesia to Hong Kong on 28 December 2019. Since I did not have a bank account, Mr. Darmawan transferred the 3,000,000 Indonesian rupiah to me through my sister’s bank account. I then bought my own plane ticket for a flight on 28 December 2019. Since the plane ticket cost 4,000,000 Indonesian rupiah, I had to pay the difference of 1,000,000 using my own money.

                                                                                       6. In the week before my flight to Hong Kong on 28 December 2019, I received mail from Mr. Darmawan containing my Hong Kong visa and my employment contract (Attachment 1), however, I did not recall signing an employment contract. I called Mr. Darmawan, asking whether I really had to pay 3000 HKD for 3 months as an application fee, to which Mr. Darmawan responded he was unsure and that I should ask JC upon arriving in Hong Kong. I also messaged Esther of JC on Whatsapp asking about the arrival arrangements for 28 December. Esther said someone would pick me up. Before coming to Hong Kong, I did not go to the Armina training center at all. 

                                                                                       7. At around 6am on 29 December 2019, I arrived at Hong Kong airport. A woman named Amy who claimed to be JC staff called me. Her phone number is 94762840. Amy was Chinese, communicated with me in English, was around 50 years old, was skinny, was around 145cm tall, had short hair, and did not wear glasses. Amy told me she would pick me up at the airport and that I should wait for her. At around 11am, Amy arrived at the airport, then took a bus with me to JC’s office. Amy said the JC office is at Causeway Bay. At around 2pm, we arrived at JC’s office. Amy gave me an agreement to sign, and its contents roughly said that I would have to pay 10% of my salary as an intermediary fee. I talked to a JC staff member who called herself Vonny. Vonny spoke Indonesian, was around 40 years old, was of a plump body figure, had long hair, and did not wear glasses. I asked Vonny whether I had to sign a document regarding payment of 3000 HKD for 3 months, and Vonny said there was no such document. At around 3pm, Amy took me to complete a medical check at a medical clinic in the same building as JC’s office, but I do not remember which floor the medical clinic was on. Amy stayed with me at the clinic for around half an hour, then took me to the boarding house. It only took a 3 minute walk to get to the boarding house from the JC office. 

                                                                                       8. At around 11am on 30 December 2019, an Indonesian domestic helper brought me back to the JC office, but I do not remember her name. She received Vonny’s phone call, then brought me to Wan Chai Immigration Tower, where I saw Vonny. Vonny helped me with the HKID application procedures, after which Vonny gave me the acknowledgment of application. The Indonesian domestic helper then brought me back to the JC office, where a female member of JC staff asked me for the acknowledgment of application. I gave it to her, but I do not know her name. At around 4pm, I left the JC office and returned to the boarding house by myself.

                                                                                       9. On 31 December 2019, Sherly sent me a Whatsapp message asking me to go to the JC office at 11am to see Sherly. I did, and saw Sherly for the first time. Sherly is Chinese, slightly fat, around 152cm tall, had black hair, did not wear glasses, and could speak Indonesian. We spoke in Indonesian. Sherly said she would take me to borrow money, and I asked her how much I had to pay for my domestic helper application in Hong Kong. She replied that I needed 12,000 HKD, and I was surprised but did not ask who the money would be paid to. Sherly then took me to the 15/F of a nearby building and asked me to enter an office there. I did not notice what the name of the office was, but it seemed to be a lending company. After Sherly told me to go inside, Sherly returned to the elevator and left. When I entered the office, a female member of staff used Indonesian to ask me to provide my passport and employment contract. I do not know her name, but she looked quite young, was around 30 years old, was skinny, was 155cm tall, had long hair, and did not wear glasses. I gave her my passport and employment contract, then she brought me to a large room and gave me some documents to sign. I did not ask what the documents were, and since she looked like she was in a rush, I did not read the documents before signing.  I do not remember what language the documents were written in. Sherly previously mentioned I would be borrowing money, so I assumed I was signing loan documents. The female member of staff then brought me to a small room and gave me an envelope. I counted and saw that there was more than $10,000 HKD, but the actual amount I do not remember. The female staff member then told me to put the envelope containing money back in the large room and said she would call JC to check whether the money was to be given to me directly or to a JC member of staff. She asked me to wait outside the office. Afterwards, she came out of the office and told me that a JC member of staff would come to collect the money. She also gave me a sheet of paper (Attachment 2) and said I should pay 7-Eleven by the dates specified on the paper, then asked me to leave. I stayed at the office for around 1-2 hours. I later went by myself to the JC office, and Sherly asked me whether I was done. I assumed Sherly was referring to the loan arrangements, so I answered yes, to which she replied ‘thank you’ in Indonesian. Sherly asked me to return to my boarding house to pack up, saying that my employer would pick me up later. I then returned to the boarding house on my own. I do not know whether a staff member of JC went back to that lending agency to collect money, nor did I ask JC about it. I have already deleted my Whatsapp conversation records with Sherly. 

                                                                                       10. In the evening of 31 December 2019, Amy brought me to the Sha Tin office of JC, where my employer Ms. Choi picked me up. I officially started my work on this day.

                                                                                       11. In January 2020, Ms. Choi was notified by JC that my HKID was ready for collection, so she asked me to collect it from the Sha Tin office of JC. I have not visited a JC office since collecting my HKID. Nor have I paid 10% of my first salary to JC.

                                                                                       12. On 31 January 2020, I went to 7-Eleven and paid my first instalment of $3000 HKD (Attachment 3). Since then, I have not paid the remaining loan instalments, nor have I been demanded to repay. 

                                                                                       13. In February 2020, I read a Labour Department handbook given to me by JC, when I learned that JC is not allowed to take me to borrow money or overcharge commission. I then contacted an NGO called Save HK. A member of Save HK then assisted me to file a complaint to the Labour Department. I wish to complain about JC bringing me to a lending company and overcharging commission. I consent to the Labour Department disclosing my identity during the course of investigations to the persons being complained of. Should it be necessary, I also consent to testifying in court with an Indonesian interpreter. Since my employer has decided to terminate my contract, my contract will end in March 2020. I have found a new employer in Hong Kong but the contract has not been signed yet. My: phone number in Indonesia is +62 822 8523 5757; address is JL. Letnan Syahminan no.20 Kecamatan Koto XI Tarausan Kabupaten Pesisir Selatan Sumatera barat Indonesia.
	Significance: 
	Source:
	





Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Payment schedule with repayment methods listed, including 7-Eleven barcode payment system
	  

	Significance: 
	Source: A foreign domestic worker who was a victim of the scheme
	



Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services
	  
  

	Significance: 
	Source: A foreign domestic worker who was a victim of the scheme
	



Conclusion: There is no excuse for 7-ELEVEN’s processing of payments for Ample. Considering the voluminous reports, negative news, court judgements, and basic due diligence red flags, 7-ELEVEN appears to have not only facilitated human trafficking but also manifested a wholesale failure to conduct even the most basic due diligence to prevent human trafficking activities from occuring via 7-ELEVEN.
	





f. Similar Schemes
	Scenery Credit Limited and Serene Credit are similar to the schemes above and utilize 7-ELEVEN’s payment processing services in order to support their business and facilitate illegal activities. 




	



Section 5 
(5) Human Trafficking Activity Involving Other Jurisdictions


This section contains the following:


a. Philippines Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework, and International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards 


b. Case 1: OLM Financing Corp




a. Philippines Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework, Poland Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework, and International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards
	Philippines Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework:


The basic law that instituted policies to prevent human trafficking is Republic Act No. 9208, also known as the “Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2003,” which was passed on May 12, 2003 and took effect on June 19, 2003. 


Section 3(a) of the law defines trafficking in persons as: 


“the recruitment, transportation, transfer or harboring, or receipt of persons with or without the victim's consent or knowledge, within or across national borders by means of threat or use of force, or other forms of coercion, abduction, fraud, deception, abuse of power or of position, taking advantage of the vulnerability of the person, or, the giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another person for the purpose of exploitation which includes at a minimum, the exploitation or the prostitution of others or other forms of sexual exploitation, forced labor or services, slavery, servitude or the removal or sale of organs.


The Act provides penalties for three categories of trafficking: 


(1) acts of trafficking in persons [20 years’ imprisonment and a fine of P1 to 2 million], 
(2) acts that promote trafficking in persons, and [15 years’ imprisonment and a fine of P500,000 to P1 million]
(3) qualified trafficking in persons. [Life imprisonment and a fine of P2 to 5 million]


International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards:

Trafficking in human beings, also referred to as modern slavery, is a serious crime and violation of human rights and dignity. It affects women and men, irrespective of their age, to the same extent. The weakest ones, the children, are in a particularly difficult position.
	

________________




b. Case 1: OLM Financing Corporation
	Summary of Case: OLM Financing Corporation (“OLM”) is a Philippines based money lender which operates an illicit money lending syndicate in collusion with employment agencies engaging in human trafficking and illegal recruitment. The proceeds of OLM’s human trafficking activities are often tranferred via 7-Eleven payment services in the Philippines. In fact, 7-Eleven publicly advertises that it is a partner for OLM[3], despite open source intelligence and negative news showing clearly that OLM is suspected of human trafficking activities.

Specifically, employment agencies in the Philippines force prospective migrant workers to obtain a loan from OLM for the purpose of financing illegal recruitment and migration fees, often through exclusive and legally prohibited referrals to training centers, medical clinics, and other migration intermediaries.

Further, OLM will unlawfully confiscate, through threats, force, and deception, blank bank checks from the prospective migrant workers. OLM will subsequently forge or threaten to forge these blank bank checks in order to manufacture a BP 22 case against migrant workers as a way of controlling them by way of arrest and unlawful private prosecution.


Legal Implications: 7-ELEVEN could be liable for its role in acting as a payment processor for OLM, as, in effect, it could be considered aiding in the facilitation of illicit activities including human trafficking, in violation of s3(a) of the Philippines' Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act 2003, and illegal recruitment, which are undertaken by OLM. 7-ELEVEN likely receives money, revenue or other benefits as a result of handling these payments for OLM. These benefits may include the cash received before it is transferred to OLM, increased foot traffic which may lead to increased sales, and other tangible/intangible benefits. Because 7-ELEVEN is generating these benefits as a result of aiding a human trafficking and debt bondage syndicate, 7-ELEVEN may be subject to repercussions in accordance with the Philippines Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework and more general criminal and civil statutes.


Typology:


  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:[ai]


Payment Instructions Which Instructs Victims To Pay Their Loan Instalments Using 7-ELEVEN's Payment Services
	 
  

 
	Importance: A document demonstrating that payment of an instalment of an illegal loan agreement should be made via 7-ELEVEN payment processing services. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN are involved in the proceedings of this scheme via wilful acceptance of payments for OLM, which engages in illicit behaviour including human trafficking. 7-ELEVEN could be liable for its role in acting as a payment processor for OLM, as, in effect, it could be considered aiding in the facilitation of illicit activities including human trafficking, in violation of s3(a) of the Philippines' Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act 2003.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from OLM. This loan was used to pay for unlawful recruitment fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments via force, deception and threats. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 


























Screenshot From 7-ELEVEN Website Advertising OLM As A Payment Partner
	 
  

 
	Importance: A document demonstrating that payment of an instalment of an illegal loan agreement should be made via 7-ELEVEN payment processing services. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN are involved in the proceedings of this scheme via wilful acceptance of payments for OLM, which engages in illicit behaviour including human trafficking. As these payments are generally the facilitating points for these illicit activities, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: https://www.7-eleven.com.ph/service-category/loans - can be navigated via 'Home' > 'Products' (Drop Down Menu) > 'Services' > 'Loans'
	



Conclusion: In conclusion, 7-ELEVEN facilitates payments in contribution to the loan agreements arranged by OLM, whilst also appearing to support OLM as a loan payment partner. The loans OLM arrange are suspected generally to have been entered into as a result of illegal recruitment and migration fees, and are enforced through other illegal means. Therefore, in effect, 7-ELEVEN are aiding and facilitating in the illicit activities of OLM, which means they may be legally liable for them, especially in light of the openly available information which brings to light the reality of OLM's activities. It is demanded that 7-ELEVEN take action to address this. As a quasi-bank, 7-ELEVEN should adopt appropriate AML/CFT policies. Finally, notwithstanding the legal liability, 7-ELEVEN may have significant risk of enormous reputational damage. 
	

________________




c. Similar Schemes
	The following schemes are similar to the schemes above, insofar as they utilise 7-ELEVEN’s payment processing service in order to receive their loan repayments and therefore continue their illegal activities:


Cashalo


Cepat Kredit Financing Inc


Chinatrust


Icash Express


Pacific Ace Loan


Global Dominion
AsiaLink


	



(6) Money Laundering Activity Involving 7-ELEVEN




Money Laundering:[aj]


Money laundering has been addressed in the UN Vienna 1988 Convention Article 3.1 describing Money Laundering as:


“the conversion or transfer of property, knowing that such property is derived from any offense(s), for the purpose of concealing or disguising the illicit origin of the property or of assisting any person who is involved in such offense(s) to evade the legal consequences of his actions”.[4]


Money laundering is a process which typically follows three stages to finally release laundered funds into the legal financial system.


There are mainly 3 Stages of Money Laundering, which include:
                                                                                          * Placement (i.e. moving the funds from direct association with the crime)
                                                                                          * Layering (i.e. disguising the trail to foil pursuit)
                                                                                          * Integration (i.e. making the money available to the criminal from what seem to be legitimate sources)


  





In reality, money laundering cases may not have all three stages, some stages could be combined, or several stages repeat several times. For instance, cash from drug sales are divided into small amounts and subsequently deposited by “money mules” and afterwards transferred as payment for services to a shell company. In this case the placement and layering are done in one stage.


In Hong Kong specifically, there are several pieces of legislation dealing with money laundering. According to the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (OSCO) and Drug Trafficking Ordinance, there currently exists a compelling duty to report suspicious transactions, including the obligation to disclose any knowledge or suspicion of money laundering activity. 




                                                                                          * Section 25(1) of Cap 455 OSCO defines money laundering as the offence of dealing with any property, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe it in whole or in part directly or indirectly represents the proceeds of an indictable offence. 


                                                                                          * Section 25A(1) requires that, where a person knows or suspects that any property—
(a) in whole or in part directly or indirectly represents any person’s proceeds of;
(b) was used in connection with; or
(c) is intended to be used in connection with,
an indictable offence, he shall as soon as it is reasonable for him to do so disclose that knowledge or suspicion, together with any matter on which that knowledge or suspicion is based, to an authorized officer.


                                                                                          * S25(4) defines an indictable offence in section 25 and 25A as a reference to conduct which would constitute an indictable offence if it had occurred in Hong Kong SAR.




Scale of Money Laundering and Negative Impact:


The estimated amount of money laundered globally per annum is 2 - 5% of global GDP, or $800 billion - $2 trillion in current US dollars. However, due to the clandestine nature of money-laundering, it is difficult to estimate the total amount of money that goes through the laundering cycle.[5] The government’s Hong Kong SAR Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment Report rated Hong Kong SAR’s overall money laundering risk, threat and vulnerability as “medium-high,”, demonstrating Hong Kong SAR’s committment to addressing this issue. Therefore, it is hoped that this commitment can be expanded and applied to the problem represented by 7-ELEVEN. Hong Kong also benefits from a strong legal system, supported by strong action and response by its enforcement agencies, suggesting that it may benefit from expanding its attention to issues on an international scale, in order to reduce the impact felt by these schemes locally. 




7-ELEVEN as a Medium for Money Laundering:


7-ELEVEN willfully accepting payments for money launderers such as PrimeCredit Limited, HS Finance & Credit Co., Ltd. despite being informed of the illicit behavior of those companies. In doing so, it may be violating its AML/CFT obligations and facilitating a money laundering scheme. Money laundering supports these lenders, allowing them to continue to exist, facilitating and funding the further illegal activities they participate in, including human trafficking. 7-ELEVEN is under a duty to identify, report and, as far as possible, look to prevent any confirmed or suspected money laundering from taking place via its payment systems. 7-ELEVEN is reported to have processed over 10 million HKD in transactions related to money laundering and/or involving excessive loans. Each transaction processed for the loan companies detailed in this binder is one compromising of excessive interest may be considered an indictable offence, and therefore, 7-ELEVEN as an entity which deals with the proceeds of such an indictable offence may be liable for money laundering. Despite the fact that 7-ELEVEN may not have materially profited from this, or known that it was involved in money laundering, ignorance is not a defence, nor is it required that they profited. In many cases, 7-ELEVEN could and should have acted faster based on the information they were provided with and had knowledge of, via mail and email. At the least, based on the volume of transactions and their uncertain background, 7-ELEVEN should have taken additional action to avoid processing suspicious transactions. 


Supporting Evidence:


See the evidence provided in each relevant case’s section




________________


(7) Money Laundering Activity Involving Taiwan




This section contains the following:


a. Taiwan Money Laundering Control Act


b. Money Laundering Involving Human Trafficking

c. Other Schemes


a. Taiwan Money Laundering Control Act
	Summary of Law:


This Act is enacted to prevent money laundering activities and combat related crimes; bolster anti-money laundering systems; maintain financial stability; increase transparency in money flows; and strengthen international cooperation.


Key Provisions:


The Act includes a number of key provisions relevant to the operations of 7-ELEVEN.


                                                                                          * Article 2


According to Article 2 of the act, money laundering is defined as:


1. knowingly disguises or conceals the origin of the proceeds of specified unlawful activity, or transfers or converts the proceeds of specified unlawful activity to help others avoid criminal prosecution;


2. disguises or conceals the true nature, source, the movement, the location, the ownership, and the disposition or other rights of the proceeds of specified unlawful activity; or


3. accepts, obtains, possesses or uses the proceeds of specified unlawful activity committed by others.


                                                                                          * Article 4


Proceeds of specified unlawful activity mean the property or the benefits and interests of the property obtained or derived from the commission of specified unlawful activities prescribed in Article 3. 


The main point is “when identifying that property is the proceeds of specified unlawful activity it shall not be necessary that a person is convicted of specified unlawful activity”.        


                                                                                          * Article 14


Anyone involved in money laundering activities prescribed in paragraphs in Article 2 shall be sentenced to imprisonment of not more than seven years; in addition, a fine of not more than NT$5 million shall be imposed.


An attempt to commit an offense specified in the preceding paragraph is punishable.
In circumstances prescribed in the preceding two paragraphs, the penalty may not exceed the maximum punishment administered for the specified unlawful activity.


Principal Offenders and Joint Offenders:


Under Chapter 4 of Criminal Code of the Republic of China, the definition and punishment of joint offenders are as follows.


                                                                                          * Article 28


Each of the two or more persons acting jointly in the commission of an offense is a principal offender.


                                                                                          * Article 29


A person who solicits another to commit an offense is a solicitor.
A solicitor shall be punished according to the punishment prescribed for the solicited offense.


                                                                                          * Article 30


A person who aids another in the commission of a crime is an accessory notwithstanding that the person aided does not know of the assistance.
The punishment prescribed for an accessory may be reduced from that prescribed for the principal offender.


                                                                                          * Article 31


A person who joins, solicits or aids another in an offense established on the basis of personal or other special relationship shall be considered a principal offender or solicitor or accessory but the punishment may be reduced.
If the punishment is to be increased, reduced, or remitted because of personal special relationship, an offender who has no such special relationship shall be given the normally prescribed punishment.




Current Events:


Taiwan’s Money Control Act Applies To Virtual Currencies Business
According to the amendments made to the Money Laundering Control Act, despite the characterisation of Bitcoin as a ‘good’, rather than legal currency, virtual currency platforms and trading businesses are required to adhere to the requirements of the anti-money laundering regulations which also apply to financial institutions, expanding the scope of the legislation. This scope had already included the following entities as of a ruling in April:


                                                                                          * ‘Exchange between virtual currency and New Taiwan Dollar, foreign currency and currencies issued in mainland China, Hong Kong or Macau.
                                                                                          * Exchange between virtual currencies.
                                                                                          * Transfer of virtual currencies.
                                                                                          * Safekeeping and administration of virtual currency or providing related management tools.
                                                                                          * Participation in or provision of financial service related to the issuance or sale of the virtual currency’
In order to comply with these requirements, any entity involved in one or more of the aforementioned businesses is advised to establish mechanisms including conducting customer due diligence, maintaining relevant records, reporting suspicious transactions, and setting up an internal control and audit system to guard against money laundering.
https://xirilaw.com/money-laundering-control-act-applies-to-virtual-currency-businesses/?utm_source=Mondaq&utm_medium=syndication&utm_campaign=LinkedIn-integration


	

________________




b. Money Laundering Involving Human Trafficking
	Money Laundering Involving Human Trafficking: All human trafficking activities are considered predicate offenses for the purpose of establishing money laundering activity. Therefore, all of the previously mentioned human trafficking cases involving 7-ELEVEN also constitute money laundering cases.
	

________________




c. Other Schemes
	Other Schemes: There exist a large number of reports, witness statements, negative news, corporate forensics, court transcripts, and other documents that support the existence of even more human trafficking syndicates in Taiwan that utilize 7-Eleven to send and receive proceeds of human trafficking activities.


                                                                                          * https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202102040021
                                                                                          * 	

________________




(8) Money Laundering Activity Involving Hong Kong SAR




This section contains the following:


a. Hong Kong SAR Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance


b. Case 1: OWA Syndicate and Affiliates


c. Case 2: PrimeCredit Limited


d. Case 3: HS Finance & Credit Co., Ltd.


e. Similar Schemes[ak]


a. Hong Kong SAR Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance
	Hong Kong SAR Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance: The Organized and Serious Crime Ordinance (“OSCO”) is designed to deal with organized crime at both a national and transnational level. It was enacted to create new powers of investigation; Provide for confiscation of proceeds of crime; Enhance sentencing of certain offenders; and Create new offences of dealing with proceeds of crime. It also prohibits dealing with property known or believed to represent proceeds of indictable offence.

Any indictable offence can constitute a predicate offence under OSCO. Section 25(4) further clarifies that references to an indictable offence include a reference to conduct that would constitute an indictable offence if it had occurred in Hong Kong.

Reports, court cases, witness statement, negative news, and open source intelligence indicate that 7-Eleven is dealing in proceeds of indictable offenses such as:


                                                                                          * Excessive interest
                                                                                          * Criminal intimidation
                                                                                          * Blackmail
                                                                                          * Theft by deception
                                                                                          * Perversion of the course of public justice
                                                                                          * Doxxing
                                                                                          * Unlicensed banking
                                                                                          * Other indictable offenses in the Crimes Ordinance, Theft Ordinance, or similar.


The Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (OSCO) (Cap. 455)


The Organized and Serious Crime Ordinance is designed to deal with organized crime at both a national and transnational level. It was enacted to create new powers of investigation; Provide for confiscation of proceeds of crime; Enhance sentencing of certain offenders; and Create new offences of dealing with proceeds of crime. It also prohibits dealing with property known or believed to represent proceeds of indictable offence.
Any indictable offence can constitute a predicate offence under OSCO. Section 25(4) further clarifies that references to an indictable offence include a reference to conduct that would constitute an indictable offence if it had occurred in Hong Kong
Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163)
Prohibits lending money at an excessive interest rate. Section 24 provides that if any person makes a loan at an effective interest rate of more than 60% per annum, he will commit a criminal offence punishable by fine and/or imprisonment and the relevant loan agreement will also be unenforceable. This is an indictable offense.
Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 200)
Prohibits threatening a person with intent, threats to destroy or damage property and procurement of person by threats.
Theft Ordinance (Cap. 210)
Prohibits obtaining property or a pecuniary advantage by deception.
The definition of ‘person’ in Hong Kong legislation includes corporations. A corporation can, therefore, be subject to liability for an offence as well.
Under OSCO and Drug Trafficking Ordinance, a person who knows or suspects any property represents proceeds of an indictable offence, drug trafficking or terrorist activities is required to disclose that knowledge or suspicion to an authorised officer as soon as practicable. In practice, the disclosure is made by way of a suspicious transaction report (STR) to the Joint Financial Intelligence Unit (JFIU). Failure to make such disclosure may amount to an offence punishable by a fine of HK$50,000 and three months’ imprisonment.
In criminal money laundering cases on conviction upon indictment, a maximum penalty of HK$5 million fine and 14 years’ imprisonment applies. On summary conviction, a maximum penalty of HK$500,000 and three years’ imprisonment applies (section 25(3) of OSCO and DTROPO).
	

________________




b. Case 1: OWA Syndicate and Affiliates
	Summary of Case: The “OWA Syndicate” comprises a network of unlicensed money lenders that receive payments derived from illicit loans via 7-ELEVEN. The OWA Syndicate engaged in a number of indictable offenses such: 


                                                                                          * charging interest rates exceeding 400% per annum 
                                                                                          * doxxing borrowers;
                                                                                          * making threats of deportation, arrest, and violence against alleged debtors.




The majority of the “OWA Syndicate” victims are foreign domestic workers who are being exploited in debt-bondage situations being forced to work.


Legal Implications: 


Violations of Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance Section 25


Offence: A person commits an offence if, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that any property in whole or in part directly or indirectly represents any person’s proceeds of an indictable offence, he deals with that property. References to an ‘indictable offence’ include a reference to conduct which would constitute an indictable offence if it had occurred in Hong Kong. (s. 25(4), OSCO). It may thereby include conduct which occurs outside Hong Kong. 


‘Dealing’ includes receiving or acquiring the property, concealing or disguising the property, disposing of or converting the property, using the property as security, or bringing into or removing from Hong Kong the property. (s 2(1), OSCO) 


‘Knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe’ - see below on the latest court ruling defining this requirement. 


‘Property’ includes (a) money, goods, choses in action and land; and (b) obligations, easements and every description of estate, interest and profit, present or future, vested or contingent, arising out of or incident to the property as defined in (a). (s.3, Interpretation and General Clauses Ordinance (Cap. 1)). 


Legal violation: OWA is a money lender in Hong Kong which has been charging interest exceeding 60% per annum on its loans made to many victims. This conduct amounts to an indictable offence in Hong Kong - particularly, charging excessive interest under the Money Lenders Ordinance. (See section (4) of this binder for further details) Any loan instalments collected pursuant to these loan arrangements would constitute proceeds of an indictable offence. 


Pursuant to the loan agreement between OWA and the victims, victims are asked to pay their loans in instalments by means specified by OWA. One of the payment methods used are the 7-ELEVEN QR payments.


The money paid by victims constitutes property representing proceeds of an indictable offense. Evidence has shown that the repayments are remitted to the money lender’s account. Any attempt by the money lenders to use the property in their account, for example, purchasing things, whether personal or business expenses, or using the excessive interest proceeds to grant additional loans, would constitute dealing. 


A summary of the amount of money dealt with by OWA


                                                                                          1. A total amount of approximately HKD $4,922,000 is estimated to have been collected by OWA from at least 1,000 victims. 
                                                                                          2. All observed loans from OWA carry interest rates exceeding 60% per annum. The lowest documented interest rate is 124% per annum, the highest interest rate is 1,410% per annum, and the medium interest rate is 623% per annum.
                                                                                          3. The loans principle ranges from HKD $900 to HK$2,100 and the repayment amount ranges from HK$2,100 to HK$9,000 with an average loan length of 16.8 weeks.


In light of these facts and given the timeline of the loans, it appears clear that OWA has been dealing with the property that they received from charging excessive interest rates, particularly in the form of giving out new loans. 


And applying the legal principles in HKSAR v Woo Yuet Sim, it is possible for an illegal money lender to also commit the offence of money laundering under s.25(1) OSCO, as economic benefit may be derived from the repayments. Hence OWA is also liable for violating s.25(1) OSCO. 


Violation of the Money Lenders Ordinance  (Cap. 163)


Offences: 


s.24(1) Any person (whether a money lender or not) who lends or offers to lend money at an effective rate of interest which exceeds 60 per cent per annum commits an offence. (s. 24(1), Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163)).


s.19(1): In respect of every agreement, whether made before or after the commencement of this Ordinance, for the repayment of money lent by a money lender, the money lender shall, on demand in writing being made by the borrower at any time during the continuance of the agreement and on tender by the borrower of the prescribed fee for expenses, supply to the borrower or, if the borrower so requires, to any person specified in that behalf in the demand, a statement (consisting of the original and a copy) signed by the money lender or his agent showing— (Amended 69 of 1988 s. 16)


(a) the date on which the loan was made, the amount of the principal of the loan and the rate per cent per annum of interest charged; 


(b) the amount of any payment already received by the money lender in respect of the loan and the date on which it was made; 
(c) the amount of every sum due to the money lender but unpaid, and the date on which it became due, and the amount of interest accrued due and unpaid in respect of every such sum; 
(d) the amount of every sum not yet due which remains outstanding, and the date on which it will become due; and


s.19(4): If a money lender fails to comply with subsection (1) or a request to which subsection (2) applies he shall not be entitled, while the default continues, to enforce the security so far as provided in relation to the agreement.


s.29(1): Any person who carries on business as a money lender—


(a) without a licence; or 
(b) at any place other than the premises specified in his licence; or 
(c) otherwise than in accordance with the conditions of his licence; or 
(d) during any period when his licence is suspended, 


commits an offence.


Summary of legal violations:
                                                                                          1. OWA, at all times, have failed to produce evidence of their money lender license. It is reasonably suspected that OWA has conducted their money lenders business without a license. 
                                                                                          2. OWA has never mentioned their business premises in any of their loan agreements. It is reasonably suspected that OWA is conducting their business without a business premises or conducting business at a place other than the premises specified in their license.
                                                                                          3. OWA, upon request by the borrower, has refused and failed to provide the borrower with any information related to the loan. 
                                                                                          4. OWA has also refused to provide the borrower with a copy of the loan agreement. 




Typology:


  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:  


 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 1
	 
  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to OWA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from OWA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 




























Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 2
	  

	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to OWA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from OWA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 








































































 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 3
	 
  

 
 
 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to OWA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from OWA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 








































































Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 4
	 
  

	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to OWA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from OWA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 










































































Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 5
	      
 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to OWA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from OWA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




































































 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 6
	 
 
 
  

 
 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to OWA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from OWA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 7
	  

	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to OWA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from OWA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant
worker’s salary.
	 




































































Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 8
	 
  

	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to OWA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from OWA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	



Conclusion:  It is clear from the information herein as well as the publicly available information that: (i) OWA is engaged in a number of indictable offenses; and (ii) proceeds of those indictable offenses are handled via 7-ELEVEN payments. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN arguably: failed to conduct appropriate due diligence;  failed report suspected activity; and, dealt with the proceeds of indictable offenses, also known as money laundering,
	

________________




c. Case 2: PrimeCredit Limited
	Summary of Case: PrimeCredit Limited is suspected of engaging in criminal intimidation by sending or causing to be sent thousands of demand letters which include threats of illegal acts such as:


                                                                                          *  "late charges" and a "30%" collection agency fee constitutes threats of an illegal act contrary to the Money Lenders Ordinance these late charges and collection agency fees would constitute violations PrimeCredit Limited's legal obligations to Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap.163)
                                                                                          * "Cause inconveniences to domestic helper’s re-application of employment visa", which is entirely without any foundation for saying so. The alleged debts are civil in nature. The Hong Kong Immigration Department and Philippines Overseas Employment Administration do not generally have the mechanism to consider information related to alleged debts
                                                                                          * Demand letter lacks the full name and liability status of PrimeCredit Limited, likely constituting a violation of the Section 4 of the Companies (Disclosure of Company Name and Liability Status) Regulation.
                                                                                          * Doxxing the victims


Legal Implications:


Violation of the Money Lenders Ordinance  (Cap. 163)


Offences: 


s22: Not to charge default interest at a rate which is higher than the original effective interest rate


By charging "late charges" and a "30%" collection fee, PrimeCredit Limited is effectively increasing the interest rate of the loan upon default, which is clearly an illegal act as set forth in Section 22 of the Money Lenders Ordinance.


s24: Not to charge interest at an effective interest rate above 60% per annum


s25: A loan with an effective interest rate exceeding 48% is presumed to be extortionate

By charging "late charges" and a "30%" collection fee, PrimeCredit Limited is effectively increasing the interest rate of the loan beyond 60% per annum, which is clearly an illegal act as set forth in Section 25 of the Money Lenders Ordinance.


Violations of the Companies (Disclosure of Company Name and Liability Status) (Cap. 622B)
Offences: 
s4(a): A company must state its registered name in legible characters in any communication document of the company  
The demand letter is a communication document sent to external stakeholders. However, PrimeCredit Limited did not put the full name and liability status on it.


Violations of Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486)
Offences: 
s64(1): A person commits an offence if he discloses any personal data of a data subject obtained from a data user without the data user’s consent with the intention-
                                                                                          1. to obtain gain in the form of money or other property, whether for his own benefit or that of another person; or
                                                                                          2. to cause loss in the form of money or other property to the data subject.
s64(2): A person will commit an offence if he discloses, irrespective of his intent, any personal data of a data subject obtained from a data user without the data user’s consent and the disclosure causes psychological harm to the data subject.
Collectors for PrimeCredit have posted victims’ private information publicly on social media forums — a practise commonly known as doxxing — as an intimidation tactic to pressure victims to make payment.


Typology:


  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 1
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to PrimeCredit. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from PrimeCredit. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 2
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to Prime Credit. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from PrimeCredit. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




































































 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 3
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to Prime Credit. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from PrimeCredit. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 


 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 4
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to Prime Credit. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from PrimeCredit. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 5
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to Prime Credit. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from PrimeCredit. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 6
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to Prime Credit. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from PrimeCredit. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
Conclusion:  It is clear from the information herein as well as the publicly available information that: (i) PrimeCredit is engaged in a number of indictable offenses; and (ii) proceeds of those indictable offenses are handled via 7-ELEVEN payments. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN arguably: failed to conduct appropriate due diligence;  failed report suspected activity; and, dealt with the proceeds of indictable offenses, also known as money laundering. 
	

________________




d. Case 3:  HS Finance & Credit Co., Ltd.[al]
	Summary of Case: HS Finance & Credit Co., Ltd (“HS Finance”) grants loans using illegal loan agreements and commits a number of indictable offenses in order to force alleged debtors to make payment to HS Finance via 7-Eleven.

The indictable offenses being committed by HS Finance include:


                                                                                          1. Doxxing in violation of Section … of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
                                                                                          2. Excessive interest in violation of Section … of the Money Lenders Ordinance
                                                                                          3. Criminal intimidation, blackmail, and similar indictable offenses.


Legal Implications: 7-Eleven is operating as a quasi-bank by processing payments for HS Finance and as a result is dealing in the proceeds of HS Finance’s illicit activity, including suspected indictable offenses.


Typology:


  




Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:
 
Message Instructing Payment of Unlawful Debts To Be Made Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services
	 
  

	Importance: The screenshot of a message sent over WhatsApp shows that the debt collector is instructing the victim to make the repayments of their debt to HS Finance via the 7-ELEVEN payment processing services. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not taken action to sufficiently conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from PrimeCredit. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments in repayment. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 










 
Payment Slip Which Instructs Victims To Pay Their Loan Instalments Using 7-ELEVEN's Payment Services
	 
  

 
	Importance: A receipt demonstrating that payment of an instalment of an illegal loan agreement is directed to be made via 7-ELEVEN payment processing services. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN are involved in the proceedings of this scheme via wilfully acceptance of payments for HS Finance, who engage in illicit behaviours. As these payments are generally the facilitating points for the illicit activities, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HS Finance. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 














































































 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 1
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to Prime Credit. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from PrimeCredit. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 2
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to HS Finance. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HS Finance. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 3
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to HS Finance. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HS Finance. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 4
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to HS Finance. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HS Finance. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 5
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to HS Finance. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HS Finance. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 6
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to HS Finance. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HS Finance. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s
salary.
	





Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 7
	  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to HS Finance. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HS Finance. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 7
	  



	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to HS Finance. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HS Finance. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s
salary.
	



Conclusion: It is clear from the information herein as well as the publicly available information that: (i) HS Finance is engaged in a number of indictable offenses; and (ii) proceeds of those indictable offenses are handled via 7-ELEVEN payments. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN arguably: failed to conduct appropriate due diligence;  failed report suspected activity; and, dealt with the proceeds of indictable offenses, also known as money laundering.
	

c. Case 2: Carry You (HK) Service Limited (Hong Kong S[am]AR) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines)
	Summary of Case:


In summary, Carry You (HK) Service Limited (Hong Kong SAR) and HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (Philippines) have used 7-ELEVEN in order to collect unlawful debts which they have procured via human trafficking and forced debt bondage. Debts are by incurred by foreign workers to cover the costs of illegal employment agencies forcing migrant workers to participate in various unnecessary programmes or other excessive fees, disguised as medical or documentation requirements and otherwise having no legal justification. These agencies then refer their victims to HOYA, a money lender in the Philippines, which grants loans to these foreign workers. These involve excessive interest rates, which the victims are not adequately made aware of. The lenders provide victims with payment slips and instruct them to pay via 7-ELEVEN convenience money processing facilities. The loans are assigned to Carry You, which is the appointed collection agent in Hong Kong for foreign workers, who then enforce the collection of these payments with intimidation and coercion. 
Therefore, they use 7-ELEVEN to:
                                                                                          * Collect debt bondage payments from victims of human trafficking and forced debt bondage. These debt bondage payments are usually collected through 7-ELEVEN when a victim of human trafficking and forced debt bondage is forced to make payments to unlawful money lenders and collection sdyndictes by presenting both cash and 7-ELEVEN payment QR code to 7-ELEVEN stores.
                                                                                          * Collect excessive interest loans. 7-ELEVEN’s services are used by victims to pay their excessive interest loans from the companies Niaga and CASH4U. Charging excessive interest on loans is an indictable offense in Hong Kong. 7-ELEVEN could be held liable for money laundering because according to Hong Kong’s Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance (OSCO) it is an offence for any person to deal with any property, knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that it represents proceeds of an indictable offence


Legal Implications: 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards by processing payments for Carry You and HOYA. The International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards outlines practical advice to prevent human trafficking, including preventing trafficking. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards.


Carry You (HK) Services Limited (“Carry You”) is appointed as the collection agent in Hong Kong for loans granted by Hoya (see document 4 below). From instructions and payment slips given to victims by Hoya, victims are asked to repay their loans in instalments by means specified by Hoya or Carry You. Initially, payment was made at 7-Eleven stores upon producing a QR code provided in the payment slips. However, after Dairy Farm (operator of 7-Eleven) was provided information on the suspected money laundering scheme, 7-Eleven QR codes were blocked from 28 February 2020. From the sample of 6 victims, the total amount paid to Hoya and Carry You through 7-ELEVEN is HK$19150.


Typology:


  



*It is noted that 7-Eleven (operated by Dairy Farm) has blocked QR code payments shortly after receiving information on the lending scheme, and Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited has likewise stopped allowing payments into Carry You’s bank account.


Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement: 
Please note that further examples can be found in the ‘Carry You’ Binder


Payment Slip Issued by HOYA Which Instructs Victims To Pay Their Loan Installments Using 7-ELEVEN's Payment Services - 1
	 
  

 
	Importance: A receipt demonstrating that payment of an instalment of an illegal loan agreement should be made via 7-ELEVEN payment processing services. Here, the payment slip demonstrates that the first of 4 payments has been made according to these instructions. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN are involved in the proceedings of this scheme via wilfully acceptance of payments for HOYA and Carry You, companies which engage in illicit behaviour including human trafficking, debt bondage and money laundering. 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. Dairy Farm also may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 






Payment Slip Issued by HOYA Which Instructs Victims To Pay Their Loan Installments Using 7-ELEVEN's Payment Services - 2
	 
  

 
	Importance: A receipt demonstrating that payment of an instalment of an illegal loan agreement should be made via 7-ELEVEN payment processing services. Here, the payment slip demonstrates that the first of 4 payments has been made according to these instructions. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN are involved in the proceedings of this scheme via wilfully acceptance of payments for HOYA and Carry You, companies which engage in illicit behaviour including human trafficking, debt bondage and money laundering. As these payments are generally the facilitating points for these illicit activities, 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. Dairy Farm may also be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




















 
Payment Slip Issued by HOYA Which Instructs Victims To Pay Their Loan Installments Using 7-ELEVEN's Payment Services - 3
	 
  

 
	Importance: A receipt demonstrating that payment of an instalment of an illegal loan agreement should be made via 7-ELEVEN payment processing services. Here, the payment slip demonstrates that the first of 4 payments has been made according to these instructions. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN are involved in the proceedings of this scheme via wilfully acceptance of payments for HOYA and Carry You, companies which engage in illicit behaviour including human trafficking, debt bondage and money laundering. 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 




















Payment Slip Issued by HOYA Which Instructs Victims To Pay Their Loan Installments Using 7-ELEVEN's Payment Services - 4
	 
  

 
	Importance: A receipt demonstrating that payment of an instalment of an illegal loan agreement should be made via 7-ELEVEN payment processing services. Here, the payment slip demonstrates that the first of 4 payments has been made according to these instructions.  Therefore, 7-ELEVEN are involved in the proceedings of this scheme via wilfully acceptance of payments for HOYA and Carry You, companies which engage in illicit behaviour including human trafficking, debt bondage and money laundering. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. As these payments are generally the facilitating points for these illicit activities, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 






















Payment Slip Issued by HOYA Which Instructs Victims To Pay Their Loan Installments Using 7-ELEVEN's Payment Services - 5
	 
  

 
	Importance: A receipt demonstrating that payment of an instalment of an illegal loan agreement should be made via 7-ELEVEN payment processing services. Here, the payment slip demonstrates that the first of 4 payments has been made according to these instructions. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN are involved in the proceedings of this scheme via wilful acceptance of payments for HOYA and Carry You, companies which engage in illicit behaviour including human trafficking, debt bondage and money laundering. 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. 
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 




















Payment Slip Issued by HOYA Which Instructs Victims To Pay Their Loan Instalments Using 7-ELEVEN's Payment Services
	 
  

 
 
	Importance: A payment notice which instructs victims on how to make payments to HOYA. Threats of 'heavy punishment' may constitute illegal behaviour, while these companies also engage in illicit behaviour such as human trafficking, debt bondage and money laundering. As these payments are generally the facilitating points for these illicit activities, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 


































Payment Record Identifying Payment to Carry You Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services
	 
 
  

 
 
	Importance: A payment record sent to a victim by Carry You, which shows the victims alleged owed amounts and the amounts which had already been repaid. Importantly, it shows that this has been done via the payment method offered by 7-ELEVEN. These payments are of illicit loans, which victims take out with HOYA in order to cover the costs of medical fees or other requirements enforced by employment agencies which otherwise have no legal justification. As these payments are generally the facilitating points for these illicit activities such as debt bondage and money laundering, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
























Payment Slip Issued by HOYA Which Instructs Victims To Pay Their Loan Instalments Using 7-ELEVEN's Payment Services
Example of Victim Payment Record
	 
 
  

 
 
	Importance: A letter sent by a victim to Carry You, informing them that they are charging an interest rate in excess of 60%, which is an indictable offence under the Money Lender's Ordinance and therefore an illegal loan arrangement. It shows that they have been instructed to use 7-ELEVEN in order to pay these loans, and requests a refund, reflecting the fact that repayments have been facilitated via 7-ELEVEN. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 








Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 1
	 
 
  

 
 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to HOYA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 




















 
Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 2
	

  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to HOYA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	 
 














Receipt of Transaction For Payment of Illicit Loan Via 7-ELEVEN Payment Services - 3
	 
 
 
  

 
	Importance: These receipts show payments made by a migrant worker, in order to repay their illicit loan to HOYA. Such monthly payments from dubious loan arrangements are likely illegal, but 7-ELEVEN processes thousands of these payments per year. 7-ELEVEN receipts like these identify the specific account numbers and transaction details of 7-ELEVEN payments related to human trafficking and debt bondage. Furthermore, these receipts provide significant evidence that 7-ELEVEN has dealt with large amounts of tainted financial proceeds. Despite copious amounts of receipts and transactions occurring in plainly suspicious circumstances, it appears as though 7-ELEVEN has not effectively taken any sufficiently proactive action to conduct due diligence on suspected crime proceedings flowing through the 7-ELEVEN financial services and barcode payment systems. 7-ELEVEN could be liable for aiding and abetting violations of Hong Kong SAR’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Legal Framework as well as violations of International Anti-Trafficking in Persons Standards. Arguably, processing payments for these loan companies supports their existence and therefore enables them to continue to partake in human trafficking and other such activities, meaning that 7-ELEVEN have violated these Standards. Accordingly, Dairy Farm may be violating its AML/CFT obligations, or even held liable for these offences due to its facilitation of illicit activity.
	Source: A migrant worker and victim of human trafficking and debt bondage who was forced by her employment agency to get a loan from HOYA. This loan was used to pay for unlawful placement fees and other migration related fees. The migrant worker was then forced to make monthly payments to Carry You after arrival in Hong Kong. In many cases, the employer unlawfully deducted these payments from the migrant worker’s salary.
	



Conclusion:
7-ELEVEN has stopped processing payments for Carry You after they had been provided with background information on HOYA's illicit behaviour. Therefore, this case can be seen as an example of how 7-ELEVEN should respond to such loan arrangements and tackle such an issue. Nonetheless, prior to this, 7-ELEVEN processed many payments which facilitated the debt bondage and illicit loan agreements undertaken by HOYA and Carry You, impacting many foreign domestic workers. Therefore, 7-ELEVEN should not wait to be provided with reports but should also conduct their own due diligence to identify such problems. 
	

________________




(9) Money Laundering Activity Involving Other Jurisdictions




This section contains the following:


a. Philippines Anti-Money Laundering Framework and Financial Action Task Force Standards

b. Case 1: FamilyHan Credit Corporation


c. Case 2: Hovono Lending Corporation “PeraPo” and Affiliates


d. Similar Schemes


a. Philippines Anti-Money Laundering Framework, Singapore Anti-Money Laundering Framework, and Financial Action Task Force Standards
	Philippines Republic Act No. 9160, as Amended: The Philippines Anti-Money Laundering Framework, as promulgated in Republic Act No. 9160, as amended, and implementing rules and regulations: (i) requires covered persons to make reports of suspected predicate offenses; and (ii) criminalizes the handling of any proceeds from the following predicate offenses, referred to as “unlawful activities”:


                                                                                          * “Kidnapping for Ransom” under Article 267 of Act No. 3815 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended;


                                                                                          * Sections 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,13, 14, 15 and 16 of Republic Act No. 9165, otherwise known as the “Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002”;


                                                                                          * Section 3 paragraphs b, c, e, g, h and i of Republic Act No. 3019, as amended, otherwise known as the “Anti-Graft and Corrupt Practices Act”;


                                                                                          * ‘’Plunder” under Republic Act No. 7080, as amended;


                                                                                          * “Robbery” and “Extortion” under Articles 294, 295, 296, 299, 300, 301 and 302 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended;


                                                                                          * “Jueteng” and “Masiao” punished as illegal gambling under Presidential Decree No. 1602;


                                                                                          * “Piracy on the High Seas” under the Revised Penal Code, as amended, and Presidential Decree No. 532:


                                                                                          * “Qualified Theft” under Article 310 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended;


                                                                                          * “Swindling” under Article 315 and “Other Forms of Swindling” under Article 316 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended:


                                                                                          * “Smuggling” under Republic Act No. 455, and Republic Act No. 1937, as amended, otherwise known as the “Tariff and Customs Code of the Philippines”;


                                                                                          * Violations under Republic Act No. 8792, otherwise known as the “Electronic Commerce Act of 2000”;


                                                                                          * “Hijacking” and other violations under Republic Act No. 6235, otherwise known as the “Anti-Hijacking Law”; “Destructive Arson”; and “Murder”, as defined under the Revised Penal Code, as amended;


                                                                                          * “Terrorism” and “Conspiracy to Commit Terrorism” as defined and penalized under Sections 3 and 4 of Republic Act No. 9372;


                                                                                          * “Financing of Terrorism” under Section 4 and offenses punishable under Sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 of Republic Act No. 10168, otherwise known as the “Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act of 2012”;


                                                                                          * “Bribery” under Articles 210, 211 and 211-A of the Revised Penal Code, as amended, and “Corruption of Public Officers” under Article 212 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended;


                                                                                          * “Frauds and Illegal Exactions and Transactions” under Articles 213, 214, 215 and 216 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended;


                                                                                          * “Malversation of Public Funds and Property”  under Articles 217 and 222 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended;


                                                                                          * “Forgeries” and “Counterfeiting” under Articles 163, 166, 167, 168, 169 and 176 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended;


                                                                                          * Violations of Sections 4 to 6 of Republic Act No. 9208, otherwise known as the “Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2003, as amended”;


                                                                                          * Violations of Sections 78 to 79 of Chapter IV of Presidential Decree No. 705, otherwise known as the “Revised Forestry Code of the Philippines, as amended”;


                                                                                          * Violations of Sections 86 to 106 of Chapter IV of Republic Act No. 8550, otherwise known as the “Philippine Fisheries Code of 1998”;


                                                                                          * Violations of Sections 101 to 107, and 110 of Republic Act No. 7942, otherwise known as the “Philippine Mining Act of 1995”;


                                                                                          * Violations of Section 27(c), (e), (f), (g) and (i) of Republic Act No. 9147, otherwise known as the “Wildlife Resources Conservation and Protection Act”;


                                                                                          * Violations of Section 7(b) of Republic Act No. 9072, otherwise known as the “National Caves and Cave Resources Management Protection Act”;


                                                                                          * Violation of Republic Act No. 6539, otherwise known as the “Anti-Carnapping Act of 2002, as amended”;


                                                                                          * Violation of Sections 1, 3, and 5 of Presidential Decree No. 1866, as amended, otherwise known as the decree “Codifying the Laws on Illegal/Unlawful Possession, Manufacture, Dealing In, Acquisition or Disposition of Firearms, Ammunition or Explosives”;


                                                                                          * Violation of Presidential Decree No. 1612, otherwise known as the “Anti-Fencing Law”;


                                                                                          * Violation of Section 6 of Republic Act No. 8042, otherwise known as the “Migrant Workers and Overseas Filipinos Act of 1995, as amended”;


                                                                                          * Violation of Republic Act No. 8293, otherwise known as the “Intellectual Property Code of the Philippines, as amended”;    


                                                                                          * Violation of Section 4 of Republic Act No. 9995, otherwise known as the “Anti-Photo and Video Voyeurism Act of 2009”;


                                                                                          * Violation of Section 4 of Republic Act No. 9775, otherwise known as the “Anti-Child Pornography Act of 2009”;


                                                                                          * Violations of Sections 5, 7, 8, 9, 10 (c), (d) and (e), 11, 12 and 14 of Republic Act No. 7610, otherwise known as the “Special Protection of Children Against Abuse, Exploitation and Discrimination”;


                                                                                          * Fraudulent practices and other violations under Republic Act No. 8799, otherwise known as the “Securities Regulation Code of 2000”;


                                                                                          * Republic Act No. 9160, as amended and the Revised Penal Code provide that aiders, abetters, facilitators, or benefactors of illicit activity are also liable.


                                                                                          * Felonies or offenses of a nature similar to the aforementioned unlawful activities that are punishable under the penal laws of other countries. 


As well as - 


Singapore Corruption, Drug Trafficking, and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act of 1999
The Singapore Anti-Money Laundering Framework as defined by the Corruption, Drug Trafficking, and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act of 1999, criminalizes the laundering of proceeds from narcotics and 184 other categories of serious offenses, including those committed overseas, which would be considered serious offenses if they had been committed in Singapore.[6][7]


	

________________




b. Case 1: FamilyHan Credit Corporation[an][ao][ap]
	Summary of Case:
FamilyHan Credit Corporation (“FamilyHan”) is a money lender in the Philippines that operates exclusively online; neither face-to-face contact, nor physical signings before a notary or an office address exist. Transactions are made largely through money transfer services using Facebook as their business platform. The firm also admits operating in partnership with undisclosed entities in Hong Kong to facilitate the collection of loan monies, and it is suspected they have partners in Singapore and Taiwan.


As of April 23rd 2020, there have been at least 5378 loans granted. From a sample of 35 out of the 132 victims, the interest rate of each loan averages 330% per annum even before the alleged 'penalty interest'. The highest found was 578%. Most, if not all, the borrowers or victims are overseas foreign workers in Hong Kong, Singapore or Taiwan.


FamilyHan had failed and refused to provide any loan agreements or disclosure statements. When such a document was eventually obtained, it was found that the loan documents misrepresented the true interest rates of the loan, the dates were wrong, the documents were not signed by FamilyHan, and used a fake notary public stamp. The activities of FamilyHan constitute numerous predicate offenses in the jurisdictions of Philippines as well as Singapore, Hong Kong SAR and Taiwan.


Legal Implications:






Typology:
  



Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Conclusion:
By acting as an intermediary through which FamilyHan and numerous other illegal money lenders operate, 7-ELEVEN facilitates and is involved in money laundering activities. These companies’ earnings in illegal interest rates constitutes illegal money and therefore money laundering.




	

c. Case 2: Hovono Lending Corporation “PeraPo” and Affiliates[aq]
	Summary of Case:
Hovono Lending Corporation (“Hovono”) is incorporated in the Philippines and operates a number of online lending platforms named “PeraPo”. Hovono makes migrant workers in Hong Kong SAR and Singapore use 7-Eleven’s QR payment method in order to make payments related to their excessive interest loans or other loan sharking activities.

While granting and collecting loans, Hovono has been documented to engage in:


                                                                                          * Fraud and fraudulent advertising practices
                                                                                          * Charging excessive interest
                                                                                          * Criminal intimidation and blackmail
                                                                                          * Perversion of the course of public justice
                                                                                          * Other serious, felony, and indictable offenses 


Legal Implications:


Typology:
The operations of Hovono are analogous to the operations of FamilyHan.


Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Conclusion:
	

________________




d. Similar Schemes
	Summary of Case:


Legal Implications:


Typology:


Examples of 7-ELEVEN Involvement:


Conclusion:
	

________________




(10) Non-Compliance with 7-ELEVEN’s Community Policies, Content Policies, and Public Commitments[ar][as]




This section contains the following:


a. Background of 7-ELEVEN Policies and Commitments


b. Summary of non- compliance with 7-ELEVEN Policies and Commitments
________________




a. Background of 7-ELEVEN Policies and Commitments
711’s Companies Policies, AML Commitments, CTIP Commitments, ESG initiatives, etc


Overview of policies referred to in the next section


                                                                                          * Management Report
                                                                                          * CSR Data Book
                                                                                          * Sustainability Report 2018
                                                                                          * Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines
                                                                                          * https://www.7andi.com/en/sustainability/compliance.html


Details of the policies


Management Report (issued in Mar 2021)


  



On page 84 of the report, Seven & i Holdings Company Limited promised to promote the protection and respect of human rights, as well as ensure compliance with laws and regulations.




CSR Data Book (Last updated at 2020)


  



It is stated in page 3 of the data book that the basic policies of 7-ELEVEN include “Maintenance of Fair and Transparent Transactions”, “Respect for Human Rights” and “Efforts Regarding Social Issues”. Meanwhile, the facilitation of collecting illegal debts might undermine the company’s efforts in adherence to those policies.




Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines


Code of Corporate Conduct


1. Compliance (Legal Compliance)
1. highest priority on compliance with laws and social norms in our business activities and aim to have sound corporate governance within management.
3. We do not associate with antisocial forces, organizations, groups, or persons that pose a threat to the social order or security of civil life. Instead, we resolutely confront their pressure and eliminate it.
5. Relationship with Local and International Community
5. engage in activities utilizing our employees' expertise and techniques in coordination with NGOs, NPOs, research organizations, and the like to resolve human rights, [...] and other domestic and overseas affairs. Encourage our directors, officers, and employees to participate in volunteer activities and the like.
                            
Compliance Education and Training of Employees
Seven & i Holdings and Group companies endeavor to promote and foster understanding of the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines among all employees. To this end they have prepared specific guidance for employees on how to put the guidelines into practice in line with the business characteristics of each company. In addition, when undertaking tier-specific group training for organizational levels ranging from new recruits to management, Seven & i Holdings provides training based on the themes of the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines and compliance.
  

Source: https://www.7andi.com/en/sustainability/compliance.html


Anti-corruption
Seven & i Holdings is a signatory to "the UN Global Compact." [...]Seven & i Holdings is working on anti-corruption, including extortion and bribery, in compliance with the laws and regulations of the regions in which it operates.[...]We also prohibit the receipt of private benefits from business partners, and do not engage in any form of corruption or fraud, including bribery, illegal political contributions, money laundering, and embezzlement. [...] Each the Seven & i Group company has provided specific guidance for implementing the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines in accordance with its business characteristics and educates its employees. The Seven & i Group reports any suspected violation of compliance, including corruption, to its superiors, and accepts reports from employees through the Groupwide Employee Helpline, an internal reporting system, and from business partners through the Business Partner Helpline. If a serious violation occurs, we report it to the Board of Directors and take disciplinary action in accordance with internal regulations. The status of compliance with the Corporate Action Guidelines is confirmed in the "Employee Engagement Survey" which is held every two years, and the "Business Partner Questionnaires" which are held every year.
  

Source: https://www.7andi.com/en/sustainability/compliance.html


Conclusion


Whilst 7-ELEVEN has put CSR policies in place it seems that there are violations of these very CSR commitments. 7-ELEVEN should make improvements to uphold the standard that they have pledged to adhere to and ensure that these company values are upheld at every level of the company.


	

b. Summary of non- compliance with 7-ELEVEN Policies and Commitments
Whilst 7-ELEVEN has put CSR policies in place it seems that there are violations of these very CSR commitments.
7-ELEVEN has pledged in its Management Report (March 2021) and in its Code of Corporate conduct that it will comply with the laws of the country in which they operate (Compliance; Code of Corporate Conduct). As it can be deducted from the various suspected violations of laws of different jurisdictions, this commitment seems not to have been upheld by 7- ELEVEN. Moreover, the pledge in the Code of Corporate Conduct not to associate with antisocial forces seem to be violated as well, as 7-ELEVEN did not try to prevent certain actors from using 7-ELEVEN’s services for their illegal activities. Therefore, it seems that contrary to what 7-ELEVEN pledged, they did not assume an active role in addressing problems nor did they engage in activities in coordination with NGOs in order to resolve human rights issues (Relationship with Local and International Community; Code of Corporate Conduct). 7- ELEVEN Hong Kong has been reached out to by an NGO that tried to inform 7-ELEVEN of the illegal activities, amongst others money laundering, that 7-ELEVEN’s payment services have been used for. However, 7-ELEVEN despite receiving the information did not act. This is particularly important as 7-ELEVEN (Seven & i Holdings) is a signatory to "the UN Global Compact" and therefore, is working on anti-corruption. Considering that they are a party to the UN Global Compact, they should have felt compelled to take this information on various illegal activities seriously and should have investigated further.
Additionally, 7-ELEVEN claims to aim to train its employees on how to put the guidelines and company codes in practice, and to provide compliance training (Seven & I Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines, Compliance Education and Training of Employees). Considering the nature of 7-ELEVEN’s quasi-bank service and payment service, the employees should have been given specific training in order to spot suspicious behaviour that would indicate e.g. money laundering. Only if such specific training is given can employees really uphold the company’s guidelines and code of conduct, and only then can they ensure that the laws are being complied with.
7-ELEVEN should make improvements to uphold the standard that they have pledged to adhere to and ensure that these company values are upheld at every level of the company.
b. Background of Dairy Farm’s Policies and Commitments
c. Background of Jardine Matheson’s Policies and Commitments
________________
(11) Suspected Securities Violations Through Material Omissions and Misleading Statements[at]




This section contains the following:


a. Securities Exchange Act of 1934[au][av]


b. Material Omissions


c. Misleading Statements


d. Financial Impact on Business and 7-ELEVEN’s Shareholders






________________


Appendix A
[Description]




This section contains the following:


A.1. 
	A.2. 
	A.3. 
	A.4. 
	A.5. 
	

________________
[1] https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/human-trafficking/human-trafficking.html
[2] Council on Foreign Relations, Human trafficking in the global era. World101
[3] https://www.7-eleven.com.ph/our-services/ 
[4] https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/money-laundering/overview.html
[5] https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/money-laundering/overview.html
[6] https://aml-cft.net/library/list-money-laundering-predicate-offences-singapore/ 
[7] https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Act/CDTOSCCBA1992 
[a]< to do
[b]The evidence for these schemes in in these folders: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1iqmBoTsJ45MDdDN90_pMFXas07Rdscy4
[c]<EMPTY
[d]should this be separated and plugged into the sections where the offense is discussed in more detail--ie "money laundering HK" goes into the money laundering section, and so on
[e]connected to the comment above--it would make more sense to discuss the "excessive interest" after explaining the moneylenders' illegal activities in more detail, with references to the diagram in 1.1
[f]do we need case law or illustrative examples?
[g]As there are already several cases listed below, is it necessary to keep this part?
[h]Keep each one of these sections to a maximum of 2-3 pages.
[i]Is this 2-3 pages including evidence?
[j]Reiterating that certain dossiers are attached.
[k]clarify
[l]Need to write a 7-10 sentence conclusion reiterating the main points and including some 'demand for action'
[m]same as the previous case
[n]These are the same statistics as the Good Hope - I can't find the binder specifically for IF, but if it is analogous to Good Hope, does it need updating/changing?
[o]The evidence in the files/evidence linked at the start of the doc does not necessarily identify 7-ELEVEN's specific involvement in the payment slips - have included it regardless but just to flag the issue
[p]Can't find anything on Global Financial in the drive?
[q]insert typology
[r]Unable to find evidence of involvement here - may be best to remove this case from the binder?
[s]Clear refusal to acknowledge forced labour offenses by government


Possible Binder approaches:
- Remove section altogether
- Emphasise how Hong Kong refuses to enact legislation and interpret the Bill of Rights in a way that prohibits trafficking for labour exploitation + point to it being highly contentious??


e.g. being criticised by various NGOs, US Dept of State, academic(?) institutions about insufficiency of existing indirect protections
[t]might be a good idea to point out that the government seems a little misguided about how labour trafficking often works! [-> refer to training guide from Linklaters]
traffickers operating indirectly through agencies, money lenders, etc. - coercion
trafficking TO hong kong through official routes BUT "invisible" coercion
[u]problem is really the lack of prospects of the law changing - what incentive does Dairy Farm in HK have to cut out their role if they're not aiding and abetting in an actual offence?
- alternative is to hammer home on their ethical standards!
[v]Hong Kong not a party to the protocol!!!
[w]In the binder it is said that : *It is noted that 7-Eleven (operated by Dairy Farm) has blocked QR code payments shortly after receiving information on the lending scheme. --> what does this mean for the 711 binder - should we still include it even though 711 has reacted and taken care of the situation?
[x]should I blurr out the names on the payment slips and not mention them by name for data protection reasons?
[y]are 3 examples enough evidence?
[z]https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/127tcN2-uOOVG_EWJ6XV6SpdznMTG8BaGYT_JMAiReTI/edit#gid=1038456519
[aa]what should the conclusion be? 711 has stopped processing the payments for Niaga ...
[ab]Binder Available on Mutual Honour


Figuring out "collusion with Asia-One Employment Agency
[ac]No typology in the Mutual Honor Binder linked?
[ad]We don't have a binder about TOYO finance but there are news articles about TOYO, there are also various case files and 711 barcode/receipt photos in our google drive.
[ae]Have been unable to find evidence which involves 7-ELEVEN - may be better to remove this case from the binder?
[af]We don't have a binder about TOYO finance but there are news articles about TOYO, there are also various case files and 711 barcode/receipt photos in our google drive.
[ag]Have been unable to find evidence which involves 7-ELEVEN - may be better to remove this case from the binder?
[ah]Have been unable to find evidence of 7-ELEVEN involvement in the binder - also may be better to remove this case from the binder
[ai]On the presentation it says that we have only been able to contact one client and I haven't been able to find any other evidence on the drive - I assume there is no further evidence expected to be included here?
[aj]add
[ak]Rich Credit, Mainstar
[al]See https://docs.google.com/document/d/1b5pkw5PqZ2K6a3-u4H_9IglhsudzxGEeHfP15hgh1UE/edit
[am]Moved from (4) - Human Trafficking HK
[an]7 11 payments even an option? double check binder
[ao]I dont think that 711 payments were even an option for victims ...
[ap]Does not appear to be any evidence of 7-ELEVEN involvement - removing this case from the binder may be appropriate
[aq]WhatsApp messages show that they instruct victims to pay via 'GCASH, BANK TRANSFER FROM PH BANKS VIA INSTAPAY, CASH DEPOSIT AND ALIPAY' - rather than 7-11 - removing this case from the binder may be appropriate
[ar]Might be noteworthy that their standards are universally deemed insufficient and esg assessments by other independent bodies point to very poor ESG compliance
[as]might also be helpful to have a list of recommended actions?
[at]Unsure how to proceed with this section
[au]Not applicable because 7-Eleven is traded on the Japanese stock exchange, I don't know the equivalent Japanese law.
[av]Also, Uni-President Enterprises Corporation is traded on the PE stock exchange, so we could also look at disclosure rules in Taiwan.