BINUYA, Mahanelyn Delen
cherlieocba@gmail.com
+852 55129507
20 September 2020
Consul-General Raly L. Tejada
Consulate General of the Philippines in Hong Kong
14th floor, United Centre 95 Queensway, Admiralty
Hong Kong SAR
Via Email To: HongKong.PCG@dfa.gov.ph
Philippines Overseas Labor Office
ATTN: Labatt Melchor B. Dizon
16/F, 33 Lockhart Road
Wanchai, Hong Kong
Via Email To: POLO.HongKong@yahoo.com
c.c: pcc@malacanang.gov.ph, pcc@malacanang.gov.ph, pab@ombudsman.gov.ph,
poea.prosecution@gmail.com
RE: Inquiry Regarding Complaints Filed at POLO-HK
To Whom This May Concern,
I am submitting this inquiry because nearly six months ago I filed a complaint against my agencies but nothing
has happened. My agencies are
1. Baguio Benguet International Recruitment Agency Inc. (“BBI”); and
2. Romy Employment Services (“Romy”);
My previous complaint was filed due to significant overcharging by BBI and Romy, who are jointly and
severally liable for issues concerning my deployment. Since filing my initial complaint POLO-HK said they
would follow-up with me, however, that has not happened and there is no evidence that any governmental body
of the Philippines government - whether that be POLO-HK, POEA, DOLE, or PCG-HK is aware that my
complaint was filed.
Thus, I am requesting a prompt update on my complaint. Furthermore, POLO-HK has stopped publishing a
list of accredited agencies online, I am unable to seek out an accredited agency for future deployment or obtain
clarification over whether Romy and its agents are actually accredited by POLO-HK. The lack of transparency
and failure to entertain the complaints of OFWs is prejudicing the rights of hundreds of thousands of OFWs and
should be fixed. If POLO-HK can not take action to fix these issues, surely the Philippines Anti-Corruption
Commission, Ombudsman, and other authorities will be forced to take action.
Furthermore, upon review of the relevant laws and information (which POLO-HK has also removed from its
website), I would like to supplement my complaint with the following concerns and violations.
BBI and Romy (collectively “Respondents”) have:
● Violated Republic Act No. 8042, as amended, implementing rules and regulations, Republic Act No.
9160, as amended, implementing rules and regulations, and other prohibited activities under the laws.
Specifically:
1. BBI unlawfully charged me excessive fees in violation of Republic Act No. 8042, as amended, and
implementing rules and regulations.
2. Respondents engaged in the following prohibited activities:
a. Impose a compulsory and exclusive arrangement whereby an overseas Filipino worker is
required to undergo training, seminar, instruction or schooling of any kind only from specifically
designated institutions, entities or persons, except for recommendatory trainings mandated by
principals/shipowners where the latter shoulder the cost of such trainings;
b. Impose a compulsory and exclusive arrangement whereby an overseas Filipino worker is
required to undergo health examinations only from specifically designated medical clinics,
institutions, entities or persons, except in the case of a seafarer whose medical examination cost
is shouldered by the principal/shipowner;
c. Impose a compulsory and exclusive arrangement whereby an overseas Filipino worker is
required to avail of a loan only from specifically designated institutions, entities or persons;
3. Finally, because violations of Republic Act No. 8042 constitute predicate criminal activity pursuant to
Republic Act No. 9160, Respondents have engaged in unlawful and unethical money laundering
activities.
Notwithstanding the above, it is also common knowledge that Romy regularly allows non-accredited sub-agents
like Best Choice Employment Center Company Limited to use its accreditation and chop to process contracts in
direct violation of the rules and regulations relating to the deployment of workers through only accredited and
licensed agencies.
Sincerely Yours,
/s/ BINUYA, Mahanelyn Delen
BINUYA, Mahanelyn Delen