Overview of Trade Descriptions Ordinance Violations (Cap. 362) by 
Talent (Kenya) Company Limited




Section 7A: Applying false trade descriptions in relation to a service


A trader who applies a false trade description to a service supplied or offered to be supplied to a consumer; or supplies or offers to supply to a consumer a service to which a false trade description is applied, commits an offence.


Trader: Trader means any person (other than an exempt person) who, in relation to a commercial practice, is acting, or purporting to act, for purposes relating to the person’s trade or business. (Section 2, Cap. 362). Lau Yuk Ling (“Ivy”), who is the director of Talent (Kenya) Company Limited (“Talent Kenya”), was acting on behalf of Talent Kenya when engaging with Njenga Esther Wanjiku (“Esther”). Talent (Kenya) Company Limited’s business is the provision of employment agency services. 


Service to which the false trade descriptions were applied: Employment agency services for the processing of a migrant domestic worker job placement in Hong Kong. 


Trade Descriptions Applied:




	False trade descriptions applied 
	Trade Description in relation to
	Evidence
	1
	Ivy claimed that Esther would be required to pay for HKID. 


However, this is false as the Hong Kong Immigration Department does not require the payment of any fees for applying for or processing an HKID. 


	Price of part of the service and the existence of a price advantage or discount


	Labour Tribunal Statement of Claim dated 20.11.2019 (Claim No. LR-33-2019-1199), Paragraph 5.


	2
	Ivy claimed that Talent (Kenya) Company Limited will apply for Esther’s HKID. 


However, this turned out to be false as Esther did not receive her HKID.
	Scope of the service
	Labour Tribunal Statement of Claim dated 20.11.2019 (Claim No. LR-33-2019-1199), Paragraph 5.




	3
	Ivy claimed that Esther would be required to pay for visa fees. 


However, this is false as employers are required to pay for visa fees under Clause 8 of the Standard Employment Contract. 


	Price of part of the service and the existence of a price advantage or discount
	Labour Tribunal Statement of Claim dated 20.11.2019 (Claim No. LR-33-2019-1199), Paragraph 5.


Standard Employment Contract
	4
	Ivy claimed that Esther would be required to pay for medical examination fees. 


However, this is false as employers are required to pay for medical examination fees under Clause 8 of the Standard Employment Contract. Ivy also required Esther to pay for medical examination out of her own pocket in August 2019, after Esther’s Hong Kong visa had already been processed and she had paid Ksh 153,000 to Talent Kenya for the various expenses including medical examination. 


	Price of part of the service and the existence of a price advantage or discount
	Labour Tribunal Statement of Claim dated 20.11.2019 (Claim No. LR-33-2019-1199), Paragraph 5. 


Standard Employment Contract


Medical Report from clinic in Kenya


Receipt of Payment from clinic in Kenya
	6
	Ivy claimed that Clause 8 of the Standard Employment Contract only applies to Filipino migrant domestic workers.


However, this is false as there is no mention of any such restrictions within the Standard Employment Contract. In fact, the Standard Employment Contract applies to all migrant workers equally regardless of citizenship or country of origin. 


	Price of part of the service and the existence of a price advantage or discount




	Labour Tribunal Statement of Claim dated 20.11.2019 (Claim No. LR-33-2019-1199), Paragraph 7. 


Standard Employment Contract
	7
	Ivy tells Hong Kong employers that Kenyan workers are willing to not take their day off so that employers are more willing to hire Kenyans. 


This statement is false as Esther clearly wished to take the rest days she was entitled to. Additionally, after Esther arrived in Hong Kong and asked for clarification regarding the rest day entitlement, Ivy admitted that she has deliberately told Hong Kong employers that Kenyan workers are willing to not take their day off so that employers are more willing to hire Kenyans. In effect, Ivy admitted that she only made this false claim in order to make employers more willing to hire Kenyan workers.  
	Nature and quality of the service provided
	Labour Tribunal Statement of Claim dated 20.11.2019 (Claim No. LR-33-2019-1199), Paragraphs 8 and 10. 
	



________________


Section 13E Misleading Omissions


A commercial practice is a misleading omission if, in its factual context, it omits material information; hides material information; provides material information in a manner that is unclear, unintelligible, ambiguous or untimely; or fails to identify its commercial intent, unless this is already apparent from the context and as a result it causes, or is likely to cause, the average consumer to make a transactional decision that the consumer would not have made otherwise.




	Relevant conduct and misleading omission made 
	Evidence
	1
	Ivy claimed that Esther could not get any rest day for the first three months of the employment as it would be her probation period. As such, she omitted mentioning that Esther is entitled to statutory rest days under the Employment Ordinance (Cap. 57).


However, this is misleading as migrant workers are entitled to at least one rest day per week under the Employment Ordinance. Ivy intentionally omitted the fact that this was a statutory requirement, in an attempt to mislead Esther into thinking that the provision of no rest day for the first three months was allowed in Hong Kong. Esther would not have sought this job placement if she knew that she would be required to give up rest days that she is entitled to under the law. In fact, Esther was later terminated by her employer due to this very issue.
	Labour Tribunal Statement of Claim dated 20.11.2019 (Claim No. LR-33-2019-1199), Paragraphs 8 and 10. 


Section 17(1) of the Employment Ordinance (Cap. 57)