Global Migration Legal Clinic
The University of Hong Kong
Dr. LAW Chi Kwong, GBS, JP
Secretary
Labour and Welfare Bureau
Via Email To: slwo@lwb.gov.hk
Mr. CHAN Ka Shun, Carlson, JP
Commissioner
Labour Department
Via Email To: cl_office@labour.gov.hk
Mr. LEUNG Kwok Keung, Daniel
Senior Labour Officer
Employment Agencies Administration
Via Email To: ea-ee@labour.gov.hk
Mr. LAM Yin Kwan, Oliver
AS (Security) D4
Security Bureau
Via Email To: sbenq@sb.gov.hk
Mr. Dennis KWOK Wing-hang
Legislative Council Member
Functional Constituency - Legal
Legislative Council
Via Email To: dennis@denniskwok.hk
Ms. Hilary TL LUNG
Inspector
Customs & Excise Department
Via Email To: hilary_tl_lung@customs.gov.hk
16 April 2020
Dear Dr. LAW, Mr. CHAN, Mr. LEUNG, and Mr. LAM,
RE: Potential Legal Violations by Talent (Kenya) Company Limited, Employment Agency
License Number 59607
We write to bring to your attention potential illegality and violations of the Code of Practice for
Employment Agencies by Talent (Kenya) Company Limited (“Talent Kenya”), an employment
agency with operations in Hong Kong. Our clinic at the University of Hong Kong first
discovered potential illegal activities by Talent Kenya in September of 2018, at which time we
notified the relevant authorities including the Police and EAA. Since then, Talent Kenya has
continued to operate with impunity, and a large portion of the 2019 trafficking-in-persons
(“TIPs”), as verified by the Hong Kong government and the International Organization for
Migration (“IOM),” were brought here by Talent Kenya. One such victim was recently featured
in a story by the Hong Kong Free Press.1
1 “Hungry and Indebted: Kenyan Domestic Worker Falls Victim to Forced Labour in Hong Kong | Hong Kong Free
Press HKFP.” at:
We understand that the employment agency licence for Talent Kenya is due to expire shortly.
For the reasons set out below, we oppose the potential renewal of Talent Kenya’s license.
Additionally, we believe an investigation into potential unlawful activities by Talent Kenya and
its directors or associates is warranted, and where appropriate, should be referred to the proper
departments for further conduct.
Potential Unlawful Activities by Talent Kenya
Our clinic has documented numerous potential legal violations committed by Talent Kenya. Our
investigations have revealed that Talent Kenya uses misrepresentations in its recruitment process
(e.g., exaggerating material terms like wages and the nature of work) and charges excessive
agency fees, which are enforced against the domestic workers through debt agreements, salary
deductions, and unauthorized withdrawals from the domestic workers’ bank accounts.
While the case details of each domestic worker victim are each unique, Talent Kenya follows a
fairly standard modus operandi. Upon arrival in Hong Kong, their domestic workers are
provided incorrect information about their legal entitlements pursuant to Hong Kong laws.
Specifically, inter alia, the workers are told that they will have no rest days or holidays until they
have paid off their debt in full. Talent Kenya staff then sets up bank accounts for the domestic
workers at Bank of China, taking custody of debit cards so that debt payments can be
automatically deducted from the workers’ accounts. Such activities are dishonest and deceptive
and contrary to, inter alia, the Employment Ordinance (Cap. 57), Organized and Serious Crimes
Ordinance (Cap. 455), and Code of Practice for Employment Agencies. We also note that other
business practices by Talent Kenya appear to contravene the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
(Cap. 486), Immigration Ordinance (Cap. 115), Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622), Trades
Descriptions Ordinance (Cap. 362), and Registration of Persons Ordinance (Cap. 177).
As of today, we understand that out of the domestic workers brought to Hong Kong by Talent
Kenya, at least one has been identified to be a TIP victim by the Hong Kong government, whilst
at least 6 have been identified as TIP victims by IOM. Furthermore, we are informed that
multiple claims against Talent Kenya have been filed by domestic workers to the police and the
EAA since 2018. We find it incredibly disheartening and incredulous that an EA that is the direct
https://hongkongfp.com/2020/04/06/hungry-and-indebted-kenyan-domestic-worker-falls-victim-to-forced-labour-in￾hong-kong/
source of a majority of confirmed TIP cases in Hong Kong for 2019 not only has not been
investigated or charged, but has been allowed to continue operations and bring in victims from
abroad. This has to be rectified post haste.
In view of the serious nature of the allegations herein, and the protracted time frame during
which Talent Kenya has been permitted to operate with impunity, we would be grateful for a
reply from your office as soon as possible.
If you wish to discuss this matter further, please contact us by email to Lindsay Ernst
(LErnst@hku.hk) and David Bishop (DBishop@hku.hk).
Yours Sincerely,
Mr. David Bishop
Global Migration Legal Clinic
The University of Hong Kong