Mr. David Bishop
Principal Lecturer
The University of Hong Kong
+852 9492 8308
DBishop@hku.hk
19 March 2019
To the Joint Financial Intelligence Unit and Security Bureau:
RE: Report of Money Laundering and other Serious Crimes
My name is David Bishop and I am a lawyer and lecturer at HKU. My students and I work to investigate and
help law enforcement with cases relating to money laundering, fraud, and other illegal activity. We have a
particular focus on cases relating to migrant workers and human trafficking.
Attached please find our evidence and typologies relating to Niaga Finance Company Limited, a HK
Money Lender, and its affiliated and partner companies. This case involves "lending money at an effective
rate of interest which exceeds 60% per annum" (i.e., loan sharking) and "conspiracy to deal with property
known or believed to represent proceeds of an indictable offence" (i.e., money laundering). Based on the
data and evidence we have collected so far, we believe that the perpetrators of these alleged crimes could
be benefiting from HK$46,700,000 per year in illicit proceeds.
We believe that Niaga and their partners are violating many laws, but we are calling your specific attention
to the fact that they are collecting excessive interest on loans. As you will see from the attached documents,
Niaga routinely collects payments for loans that charge well over 100% interest, which significantly exceeds
HK's usury rate of only 60% per annum.
Niaga has argued that (i) they are only a collector and not the lender, and (ii) that since the loans were
issued overseas HK's Money Lenders Ordinance (MLO) does not apply. First, we disagree with the
contention that Niaga is not the lender, and in fact can show a direct relationship between the companies.
Second, we disagree that HK's MLO does not apply; indeed, HK courts have clearly enumerated that HK's
MLO often does apply to loans issued overseas. In fact, a HK Magistrates Court stated in the judgment of a
2012 case wherein Niaga was a party that the MLO does apply to the loans they are collecting in HK.
However, even if Niaga's arguments are accepted as true, it is still illegal to collect or facilitate the
collection of payment on loans where the interest rate exceeds HK's usury rate of 60% per annum
Page 1
(and to be clear, Niaga has the loan payment schedules, so they know that the interest rates are excessive).
Moreover, the interest charged on the loans in question also exceeded the legal usury rate in the country
where they originated. Accordingly, however you look at it, Niaga and their partners are engaging in loan
sharking and money laundering.
Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap 163)
Relevant language from the MLO is provided below (highlights added).
24. Prohibition of excessive interest rates
(1) Any person (whether a money lender or not) who lends or offers to lend money at an
effective rate of interest which exceeds 60 per cent per annum commits an offence.
(2) No agreement for the repayment of any loan or for the payment of interest on any loan
and no security given in respect of any such agreement or loan shall be enforceable in any case
in which the effective rate of interest exceeds the rate specified in subsection (1).
(3) The Legislative Council may by resolution alter the rate specified in subsection (1): Provided
that in relation to any agreement for the repayment of any loan or for the payment of interest on
any loan which is in force at the date when such rate is so altered, the rate so specified as at the
coming into force of such agreement shall continue to apply.
(4) Any person who commits an offence under this section shall be liable—
(a) on summary conviction to a fine of $500,000 and to imprisonment for 2 years;
(b) on conviction on indictment to a fine of $5,000,000 and to imprisonment for 10
years. (Amended 82 of 1994 s. 33)
(5) Nothing in this section shall apply to—
(a) a loan specified in paragraph 12 in Part 2 of Schedule 1; or
(b) as respects such loan, any person who makes such loan. (Replaced 69 of 1988 s. 20)
Recent HK Case Law Relating to Excessive Interest and Money Laundering:
For some recent, relevant case law on the subject, please consider:
HKSAR v Woo Yuet Sim (D1) and Lam Siu Ho (D2), [2019] HKDC 261
The court stated, “As we have been at pains to point out, the section 25(1) offence is committed where
a person deals with property knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that the same
Page 2
represents the proceeds of the predicate offence.“
And: “There can be no dispute that both “lending money at an effective rate of interest which exceeds
60% per annum” (“loan sharking”) and “conspiracy to deal with property known or believed to
represent proceeds of an indictable offence” (“money laundering”) are specified offences listed in
Schedule 1 of OSCO.”
HKSAR v Harjani Haresh Murlidhar [2019] HKCFA 47, available at:
Wilful Blindness: The legal doctrine of “wilful blindness” has been used by courts in cases where
actual knowledge of a fact or of particular circumstances is an essential ingredient of the offence.
Under the doctrine a defendant is treated as having such knowledge if, having been put on
enquiry, he has deliberately refrained from making enquiries that would have resulted in his
acquiring the knowledge in question.
This doctrine [of wilful blindness] applies where the defendant intentionally chooses not to inquire
whether something is true because he has no real doubt what the answer is going to be. Its
effect is to attribute knowledge of the circumstance to the defendant. In other words, where the wilful
blindness doctrine applies, the law will treat the defendant as having actual knowledge …, and
not merely the reckless knowledge that he otherwise would have.
The doctrine of wilful blindness is important in this case because in the past Niaga has told HK authorities
that it did not know that the loans it was collecting were connected to illicit activity. But we can prove that in
2012 Niaga was expressly put on notice that its business model - namely, providing loans to migrant
domestic workers and collecting the payments for said loans - was potentially exploitative, thus increasing
the need to conduct proper due diligence and ask relevant questions. Niaga knows very well that loans
provided to foreign domestic workers often contain excessive interest, and are coerced loans used to pay for
illegal placement fees. Debt bondage is a common tool used by human trafficking organizations, and is an
area of particular concern in HK, as highlighted in the US Government’s Trafficking in Persons Report, along
with several other research publications.
Moreover, beyond the theoretical risk associated with loans to domestic workers in general, Niaga has the
actual loan documents and payment charts. We contend that Niaga is actually colluding with the overseas
lenders, and can show that there are correlations in ownership and management between Niaga and its
overseas lending partner. Therefore we contend that Niaga is the lender, or at least retains some beneficial
interest in the original loans. But even if a HK court found that to not be the case, Niaga clearly has express
knowledge about the exploitative and illegal nature of those loans, and should at the very least perform
additional due diligence to find out the purpose and nature of the loans, and ask the borrowers more
questions about potential exploitation and illegal activity.
Page 3
Niaga has not done any of those things. In fact, Niaga has been contacted repeatedly by concerned
borrowers, who have provided significant information about the exploitative and illegal nature of the
underlying loan agreements. The so-called borrowers have made it expressly clear that the underlying loans
are often fraudulent, coerced, exploitative, and should be void under the law.
It has been explained to Niaga (including both front-line staff as well as senior management) and Niaga’s
legal counsel that most of the loans in their business model contain excessive interest, and were granted
primarily for the purpose of financing illegal job placement fees. But Niaga has ignored these many
warnings, and in fact has stated publicly that they do not conduct any due diligence or fact gathering when
engaging in money lending and debt collection.
In 2012, when Niaga’s CEO Paul Lie took the stand to defend his company’s questionable actions in a HK
Magistrates Court, he admitted on the record that it was not his job to ask questions about what loans are
for, and he and his company did no due diligence on the purpose of the loans or their interest rates.
Niaga and its affiliates and partners have plagued HK long enough. HK authorities cannot allow members of
our business and finance community to turn a blind eye to obvious illegal behavior. And even worse, when
they are directly involved, colluding and conspiring to facilitate illegal behavior, HK’s authorities must act and
provide swift justice. The finance industry in particular has a key role to play to ensure they are not
facilitating illegal activities, and since 2016 HK law has placed much stricter standards on Money Lenders.
Our plea is made all the more urgent when considering that we believe Niaga and its partners are facilitating
bonded and forced labour and human trafficking. It is imperative that these actions are investigated, and if
confirmed, the perpetrators are given the requisite punishment.
We request that you please take this matter seriously, and arrange a time to meet with our team to go over
the details. Many thanks for your consideration.
Sincerely,
David Bishop
Principal Lecturer
The Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Page 4