12 December 2021


REPORT ON THE ILLICIT ACTIVITIES OF FACEBOOK, FACEBOOK BOARD OF DIRECTORS, FACEBOOK OVERSIGHT BOARD, FACEBOOK SHAREHOLDERS
IN RELATION TO SUSPECTED MONEY LAUNDERING, HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACTIVITIES, INADEQUATE ENFORCEMENT OF CONTENT POLICIES, AND INSUFFICIENT DISCLOSURE TO SHAREHOLDERS


Sent Via Postal Mail To: 
Facebook’s Legal Department,                
156 University Avenue, 
Palo Alto, CA 94301,
United States of America


Also Via Email To: legal@facebook.com , records@facebook.c, subpoena@facebook.com
 
	

Stakeholders:
1. Apple: security@apple.com
2. Google: press@google.com, 
uslawenforcement@google.com
3. Facebook´s Oversight Board: Boardpress@osbadmin.com
4. Securities and Exchange Commission: Help@sec.gov 
5. Law Enforcement Authorities:
   1. Hong Kong SAR
ETR@hkma.gov.hk 
   2. Taiwan 
amlo@ey.gov.tw 
   3. Singapore
Via I-Witness
   4. Philippines
secretariat@amlc.gov.ph 
6. US Lawmakers 
   1. Senate: senator@feinstein.senate.gov
   2. House of Representatives: 
mcclintock@tommcclintock.com
7. US Federal Trade Commission:
antitrust@ftc.gov
8. Frances Haugen: press@franceshaugen.com
9. Whistleblower Aid: press@whistlebloweraid.org
	

We are writing to make a complaint regarding suspected illegal activity facilitated by your platform. It has come to our attention that illegal money lending activity and human trafficking activities has been ongoing on Facebook for a period of time. Moreover, there appears to be inadequate enforcement of Facebook’s content policies and insufficient disclosure to shareholders. 


Human Trafficking
Facebook is used by many human traffickers posing as employment agencies for sourcing foreign domestic workers for employers in Hong Kong. There exist hundreds of thousands of Facebook pages, Facebook groups, and Facebook profiles that are obtusely used for the purposes of human trafficking, money laundering, and exploitation of migrants.


Examples of Facebook Involvement


Exhibit 1
	Harassing Post by Grand Fusion Involving Suspected Criminal Intimidation, Unlawful Publishing of Personal Information Such As Full Name, and Derogatory Comments Made in an Attempt to Collect Alleged Debts Contributing to Improper Debt Bondage
	  

	Importance: Suspected Criminal Intimidation, Unlawful Publishing of Personal Information Such As Full Name, Derogatory Comments Made in an Attempt to Collect Alleged Debts Contributing to Improper Debt Bondage. Facebook is in breach of Article 15 Taiwan Criminal Code as it in line with its own policies is capable of preventing the results from these offenses, by taking the content down. It has however failed to do so.
	Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/469437277364647/posts/651921925782847/     
	

	Exhibit 2
	 Unlawful Publishing of Personal Information such as Full Name and Suspected Criminal Intimidation
	  

	Importance: Suspected Criminal Intimidation, Unlawful Publishing of Personal Information Such As Full Name. Facebook is in breach of Article 15 Taiwan Criminal Code as it in line with its own policies is capable of preventing the results from these offenses, by taking the content down. It has however failed to do so.
	Source: https://www.facebook.com/groups/469437277364647/posts/651921925782847/ 
	

	Exhibit 3
	Violation by Carry You using Facebook as its Platform
	  

	Importance: Messages from Carry You to a victim. While Carry You is no longer seeking to receive the money directly, it is still at least assisting in the collection of the loan monies. This constitutes attempted dealing which Facebook is facilitating.
	Source: Victim. 
	

Money Laundering
Facebook has an active duty to report any confirmed or suspected money laundering on its site, even if the original indictable offence was committed abroad and only passed through Hong Kong.  Yet despite allegations that it is in fact aware of the activity happening on its platform, Facebook has elected to take little to no action and as demonstrated from shareholder meetings they have in fact downplayed the issue instead. It can therefore be held liable for this indictable offence, especially based on the contents and evidence contained in this binder.
Examples of Facebook Involvement


Exhibit 4
	FamilyHan targets vulnerable members
	  

	Importance: FamilyHan appears to target vulnerable members of the community, especially foreign overseas workers who are struggling with financial difficulties. By operating online with little to no background checks on potential borrowers, FamilyHan abuses its position to manipulate victims with excessive interest rates.

FamilyHan also paid Facebook to proactively promote and advertise FamilyHan’s illicit lending operations and Facebook posts. Therefore, Facebook likely directly received proceeds of FamilyHan’s illicit activities in the form of advertising fees.
	Source: Facebook.
	

	Exhibit 5
	Money Lenders using Facebook Chats
	  

	Importance: OWA operates its money lending business through multiple Facebook pages. This is an example of online instructions given to potential borrowers through Facebook inbox chats. 
	Source: Victim.
	

Non-Disclosure to Shareholders
Facilitating illegal acts via a platform and profiting from it means that failing to disclose this type of risk of abuse to Facebook's shareholders is a violation of the Securities and Exchange Commission regulations governing publicly traded companies.


Conclusion 
Facebook, may therefore be liable for:
i)         facilitating human trafficking through its platform;
ii)         facilitating money laundering through its platform; 
iii)         not taking sufficient action to regulate content on its platform; and
iv)         failing to inform shareholders of the risks associated with the illicit activity ongoing on its platform and/or providing materially false or misleading information to investors about actions taken to minimize risks that may be insufficient or ineffective.


We request that you conduct an investigation into the aforementioned violations taking place on Facebook's platform, and if appropriate, ban or take down all related  pages to prevent any further illicit lending and faciliation of human trafficking on the platform. 


Thank you, and we look forward to your response. 


Sincerely Yours,

Samusai Intelligence