SWORN STATEMENT OF MS. Cristina Repuny Lapay
AFFIDAVIT

I, Cristina Repuny Lapay, Filipino citizen, of legal age 35, and a resident of 15/F Kwong Wah Mansion, 269 Hennessy Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong hereby depose and say:


1. That I am a borrower of FAMILYHAN CREDIT CORPORATION (“FAMILYHAN”), a lending institution duly organized under the law of the Republic of the Philippines with its registered principal office address at 3585 San Jose St. Brgy. San Jose Antipolo City and/or 66 Jade Bldg. Sto. Nino St., Brgy. San Jose, Antipolo City, and its represented office address cited in communications as Poblacion 1, 4222 Cuenca, Batangas;

2. That in contrast to the registered principal office address and represented office address cited in communications, it is my understanding that FAMILYHAN is actually operating at 150 Ayala Hwy, Lipa, Batangas;

3. That I came to learn about FAMILYHAN via online advertisements that target foreign domestic workers in Hong Kong SAR and Singapore. I later learned that FAMILYHAN does not have a money lenders license in Hong Kong SAR and Singapore and is thus operating as an unlicensed money lender in these jurisdictions;

4. That on or around 31 April 2020, I applied online for a loan from FAMILYHAN for the amount of 40,000 Pesos. As part of the online loan application process, FAMILYHAN received and processed data and photographs including my passport number, Hong Kong identity card, employment contract, and other personal information;

5. That although I applied for a loan of 40,000 Pesos, FAMILYHAN charged an undisclosed processing fee of around 4,000 Pesos, thus I did not receive the full amount of the loan;

6. That FAMILYHAN provided an amount of 36,000 Pesos, to be payable in 2 monthly instalments of 26,000 Pesos. The interest rate of this loan therefore amounts to approximately266.6664% per annum. No loan agreement or disclosure statement was shown or provided to me regarding the said loan, hence it has not been possible for me to ascertain the true amounts demanded by FAMILYHAN or its representatives;

7. That the interest rate of the FAMILYHAN loans exceeds the 5% per month interest rate allowable pursuant to FAMILYHAN’s registration with the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission. Indeed, according to the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission website, https://www.sec.gov.ph/lending-companies-and-financing-companies-2/list-of-lending-companies-2/, FAMILYHAN can only grant loans with an interest rate of 5% per month, yet the loan granted by FAMILYHAN has an interest rate of 266.6664%per annum. Thus, FAMILYHAN’s has defrauded me by its failure to abide by its allowable interest rate of 5% and has defrauded the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission by failing to honor their license conditions of 5% per month in interest charges;

8. That since I am an Overseas Filipino Worker taking employment in Hong Kong SAR, my payment for the said loan can only be made through remittance companies in Hong Kong SAR. However, remittance companies in Hong Kong SAR have refused payments to FAMILYHAN due to potential violations of Hong Kong SAR laws, rules and regulations in dealing with funds relating to FAMILYHAN. Namely, it is understood that the interest rate of FAMILYHAN loans are in significant excess of the maximum allowed limit under Hong Kong SAR law which constitutes an indictable offence, and subsequent dealings of loan monies with requisite knowledge may constitute money laundering offences under the laws of Hong Kong SAR. In more detail, it is an indictable (felony) offense in Hong Kong SAR for a money lender to grant loans that carry an interest rate of over 60% per annum. Furthermore, all processing fees, applications fees, or transfers fees are considered interest fees pursuant to Hong Kong SAR law. Given that the loan granted by FAMILYHAN carries excessive interest, it is an indictable offense and also money laundering for banks, remittance companies, or even people to process, transfer, or provide intermediary assistance to FAMILYHAN. Any indirect or direct assistance to FAMILYHAN would be considered a violation of the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance in Hong Kong and thus would also be prohibited pursuant to the Philippines Republic Act No. 9160, as amended, which prohibits the handling, processing, or otherwise dealing with proceeds of a serious (indictable or felon) offense from overseas jurisdictions;

9. That the activity of FAMILYHAN constitutes an indictable offense pursuant to the laws Hong Kong SAR, it reasons that the subsequent transfer, handling, dealing, and processing of the funds to and from the Philippines constitutes a violation of Republic Act No. 9160, as amended by Republic Act Nos. 9194, 10167 and 10365. Specifically, an indictable offense is equivalent to a felony offense and thus the activity of FAMILYHAN is prohibited pursuant to Part 34 of Paragraph T defining "Unlawful Activity" as set forth within Republic Act No. 9160, as amended;

10. That because authorities and remittance companies in Hong Kong SAR have blocked all transactions to FAMILYHAN due to ongoing money laundering investigations, I was unable to pay FAMILYHAN. FAMILYHAN retaliated against me by sending me various messages and calls from FAMILYHAN using various phone numbers on WhatsApp beginning with “+63”. In these calls FAMILYHAN repeatedly demanded payment, harassed me, and threatened me. Within these messages and calls FAMILYHAN engaged in a scheme of criminal intimidation and blackmail where FAMILYHAN, among other things, said that if I did not pay I would be arrested by police and blacklisted from working abroad;

11. That in the course of engaging in unprofessional and harassing messages FAMILYHAN arbitrarily threatened me with a daily late fee of 300 to 500 Pesos without any justification. Indeed, some staff of FAMILYHAN informed me I would be charged 300 Pesos per day for late payments, while other collectors stated I would be charged 400 or 500 Pesos per day. FAMILYHAN refused to explain why these fees were being charged and FAMILYHAN never disclosed these late fees to me in any agreement, advertisement, or other communication.

12. That a demand letter from FAMILYHAN or its representatives was posted locally to my employer’s place of residence in Hong Kong SAR, without any return address in Hong Kong SAR. The demand letters are stamped in red with the text “LETTER OF DEMAND” and my sensitive personal information including my passport number is visible even from the unopened envelope;

13. That FAMILYHAN is refusing to provide the address, name, other details of the collector, staff, or representative within Hong Kong SAR;

14. That FAMILYHAN is not duly registered or licensed in Hong Kong SAR to conduct business in whatever form. FAMILYHAN has nonetheless disclosed my sensitive personal information to an undisclosed representative or third party in Hong Kong SAR which posts the demand letters to my employer’s place of residence. There is no return address in Hong Kong SAR because FAMILYHAN has no authorized presence in Hong Kong SAR, and FAMILYHAN has failed to disclose the identity of the persons responsible for posting such demand letters. FAMILYHAN and its representatives flagrantly violate numerous laws of Hong Kong SAR and may be actively encouraging and inducing money laundering activity to be committed in Hong Kong SAR, to the prejudice of the name of our country;

15. That because of the demand letters received at my employer’s place of residence, my originally good working relationship with my employer has been disrupted and subject to distrust and friction due to the said loan which was disclosed to my employer without my consent;

16. That also, the harassment and threats of FAMILYHAN has caused me significant mental anguish, emotional distress and sleepless nights. I am under unbearable humiliation, paranoia of incoming messages and calls from FAMILYHAN, and constant fear that FAMILYHAN will likewise harass my future employer which may lead to another termination and significant damages.

17. That FAMILYHAN has unlawfully disclosed my personal data as well as the personal data of thousands of borrowers via a public accessible client management system that can be accessed without any authentication credentials. This was discovered after seeing a video of the exposed personal information of FAMILYHAN borrowers at the following Facebook link: https://www.facebook.com/FamilyHanIsAFraud/videos/356747829054519/. 

18. In accordance with the severity of the suspected crimes elaborated on within this sworn statement, I respectfully request that the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission and relevant law enforcement offices within the Philippines investigate the people, shareholders, companies, affiliates, and circumstances for possible violations of:

   1. Republic Act No. 3765;
   2. Republic Act No. 9160, as amended;
   3. Republic Act No. 10173;
   4. All other relevant statutes, administrative rules, or applicable                         regulations.

      19. I am willing to provide additional details and evidence to ensure my complaint and investigations against FAMILYHAN are pursued to the fullest extent of the law. To assist authorities to investigate and pursue this complaint I may be contacted in the following manners:


Via Email To:
	cristinalove8514344@gmail.com
	Via Phone / Whatsapp To: 
	60387669
	Postal Mail To:
	15/F Kwong Wah Mansion, 269 Hennessy Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong
	


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto affixed my signature this 30 day of August, 2020 in Hong Kong SAR.



........................................................................      
 (Signature of Affiant over Printed Name)



........................................................................      
 (Signature of Witness over Printed Name) 
	

........................................................................      
 (Signature of Witness over Printed Name)