UY, Michelle
RM15B1, 15/F, 7-9 Hill Road
Sai Wan, Hong Kong


24 October 2020


URGENT - REPORT OF SUSPECTED MONEY LAUNDERING 


Hang Seng Bank, Limited
12/F Hang Seng 113, 113 Argyle Street
Mongkok, Hong Kong
Via Email To: qad@hangseng.com

The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
Customer Relations
P.O. Box No. 71169
Kowloon Central Post Office
Via Email To: Feedback@hsbc.com.hk 


To Whom This May Concern,


This letter is being sent to report a suspected money laundering scheme involving Top Credit Finance Limited, UN Finance Limited, (“Top/UN”), and the following Hang Seng Bank, Limited (“Hang Seng”) bank accounts:

Company Name
	Bank Account 
	Financial Transaction Services
	Top Credit Finance Limited
	Hang Seng Bank Account No.:
* 933-05447-883
	711 QR Payment Codes
Softmedia Loan Software
	UN Finance (HK) Limited
	Hang Seng Bank Account No.:
* 364-358044-883
	711 QR Payment Codes
Softmedia Loan Software
	

It is demanded that Hang Seng and the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (“HSBC”) immediately take all measures available to prevent the flow of illicit money within the financial system. It is noted that Hang Seng and HSBC have legal obligations to comply with various local and global AML/CFT laws, regulations, and standards. Furthermore, both Hang Seng and HSBC may be liable to provide me with a refund, if they fail to assist in implementing appropriate AML/CFT policies and actions.

The funds within, being sent from, and received by Hang Seng bank accounts with account number 364-358044-883 and 933-05447-883, are suspected to be proceeds of the following indictable offenses:


* Operating a deposit taking savings account without a license from the Hong Kong Monetary Authority: Top/UN requires almost all borrowers to deposit money into an unlicensed savings account in violation of the Banking Ordinance. 

* Excessive interest pursuant to the Money Lenders Ordinance: Top/UN grants loans that carry a mandatory ‘processing’ and ‘savings’ fee. According to both Ordinance and case law, these ‘processing’ and ‘savings’ fees can be considered interest fees. For example, it is reported that:

Top/UN gives a monthly revolving loan of $2000. They charge 4% interest ($80) and a $100 "processing fee". The annual interest on this loan is effectively 108% which constitutes an indictable violation of the Money Lenders Ordinance.

* Fraud and Intimidation: Top/UN engage in a scheme to defraud, blackmail, harass, and intimidate borrowers by posting their personal information in publicly accessible locations. Such mis-use and deceptive collection of personal information likely constitutes fraud as well as ubiquitous violations of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance.

In support of these concerns, please see the enclosed documents, including multiple complaints with the Hong Kong Police Force.

By providing services or otherwise facilitating transfers for proceeds suspected of originating from an indictable offense, without doing adequate due diligence may be a violation of the obligations of Hang Seng and HSBC.

Hang Seng and HSBC may also be obligated to provide me with a refund of the illicitly collected fees, due to the lack of apparent AML/CFT action which has facilitated the illicit activities of Top/UN.


In consideration of such, it is requested that Hang Seng and HSBC promptly exercise appropriate caution, due diligence, and AML/CFT policies to detect, block, and stop crime proceeds.


Sincerely Yours,



UY, Michelle