18 May 2020


URGENT - REPORT OF SUSPECTED MONEY LAUNDERING 


Hang Seng Bank, Limited
12/F Hang Seng 113, 113 Argyle Street
Mongkok, Hong Kong
Via Email To: qad@hangseng.com

The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
Customer Relations
P.O. Box No. 71169
Kowloon Central Post Office
Via Email To: Feedback@hsbc.com.hk 


To Whom This May Concern,


This letter is being sent to report a suspected money laundering scheme involving PRC Consultants Limited (PRC), Rich Credit Finance Limited (Rich Credit), and at least one Hang Seng Bank, Limited (Hang Seng) account - particularly Hang Seng account number 364335-745-883.


It is demanded that Hang Seng and the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (HSBC) immediately take all measures available to prevent the flow of illicit money within the financial system. It is noted that Hang Seng and HSBC have legal obligations to comply with various local and global AML/CFT laws, regulations, and standards.

The funds within, being sent from, and received by Hang Seng account number 364335-745-883, are suspected to be proceeds of the following indictable offenses:


* Excessive commission pursuant to the Money Lenders Ordinance: Specifically, Rich Credit reportedly grants loans that carry a mandatory ‘processing’ and ‘savings’ fee. According to both Ordinance and case law, these ‘processing’ and ‘savings’ fees can be considered interest fees. For example, it is reported that:

Rich Credit gives a monthly revolving loan of $2000. They charge 4% interest ($80) and a $100 "processing fee". The annual interest on this loan is effectively 108% which constitutes an indictable violation of the Money Lenders Ordinance.


* Fraud and Intimidation: Rich Credit, in coordination with their apparent sister company, PRC, are engaged in a scheme to defraud, blackmail, harass, and intimidate borrowers by posting their personal information in publicly accessible locations. Such mis-use and deceptive collection of personal information likely constitutes fraud as well as ubiquitous violations of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance.

Furthermore, the fact that Rich Credit offers a ‘savings’ account product, without a valid Hong Kong Monetary Authority license, likely constitutes fraud, theft by deception, or other serious offenses.

In support of these concerns, please see the enclosed documents, including multiple complaints with the Hong Kong Police Force.

By providing services or otherwise facilitating transfers for proceeds suspected of originating from an indictable offense, without doing adequate due diligence may be a violation of the obligations of Hang Seng and HSBC.


In consideration of such, it is requested that Hang Seng and HSBC promptly exercise appropriate caution, due diligence, and AML/CFT policies to detect, block, and stop crime proceeds.


Sincerely Yours,


Samusai Intelligence