17 May 2020


DEMAND LETTER - SUSPECTED MONEY LAUNDERING 


Via Post To:
BDO Remit Limited
Shops 231 to 234 & 237
2/F Worldwide House
19 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong
Via Email To: compliance@bdoub.com.hk, arispe.jay@bdo.com.ph, Almeda.Jose@bdo.com.ph, Son.Howard@bdoub.com.hk, dechavez.kenette@bdoub.com.hk 


To Whom This May Concern,


This letter is being sent to report a suspected money laundering scheme involving BDO Remit Limited (“BDO”) and FamilyHan Credit Corporation (“FamilyHan”).


It is demanded that BDO immediately take all measures available to prevent funds from being transferred to FamilyHan. It is further demanded that BDO conduct proper due diligence and adhere to anti-money laundering protocols to ensure illicit funds relating to FamilyHan or otherwise are not being sent, received, stored, or otherwise dealt with. 


By way of background, FamilyHan is an online money lender based in the Philippines which grants loans carrying excessive interest rates. Prospective borrowers submit an online application form and are contacted by FamilyHan staff to provide personal details of themselves, family members, and their employer. Upon providing this data, borrowers receive money by bank transfer or remittance. Borrowers in Hong Kong are asked to repay their loans using companies such as BDO to transfer money into FamilyHan’s accounts which include BDO Unibank, Inc (BDO) Account No.: 008-158010-370 and Asia United Bank Corporation (AUB) Account No.: 071-01-000102-7. FamilyHan has issued at least 4000 loans in the first two months of 2020, and it is estimated several thousand more have been issued by May 2020. 


After reviewing loan agreements (sample included as Exhibit 1), the effective annual interest rate carried by FamilyHan loans is clearly excessive. Under the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163), granting a loan with an interest rate exceeding 60% per year constitutes an indictable offense.

To illustrate with the details in Exhibit 1, the loan principal is 20,000 PHP with an acceptance fee of 2,000 PHP, meaning the amount actually received is 18,000 PHP. A total of 23,000 PHP is to be repaid in 1 month. Using the method of interest rate calculation provided in Schedule 2 of the Money Lenders Ordinance and relevant case authorities, the effective annual interest rate exceeds 333% per annum. Indeed, the figures in Exhibit 1 even misrepresents the interest rate as being 180% per annum. In any event, the interest rate is in excess of 60% and there is a clear violation of the Money Lenders Ordinance. It follows that the loan is invalid under Hong Kong law and any further collection or dealing with the proceeds of the loan would constitute money laundering. 


Money laundering is an offence formally known as dealing with property known or believed to represent proceeds of an indictable offence under the the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455). In this instance, the indictable offence would be charging excessive interest contrary to the Money Lenders Ordinance as explained above, and the property representing proceeds of this indictable offence would be the loan monies. Notably, the money laundering offence may be committed even if FamilyHan’s charging of excessive interest is conducted overseas, as court decisions have authoritatively confirmed that the relevant conduct is assessed under Hong Kong law.

By providing services or otherwise facilitating FamilyHan’s collection of loan repayments, BDO may be dealing with proceeds of an indictable offence and risks incurring liability under the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance. 


Pursuant to the Guideline on Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Financing of Terrorism for MSOs, BDO as a licensed MSO must take all reasonable measures to ensure that proper safeguards exist to mitigate risks of money laundering and to prevent contraventions of any requirement under Part 2 or 3 of Schedule 2 of the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance (Cap. 613). 


For further context of FamilyHan’s operations, the following illicit activities have been observed and documented:
Ordinance, Act, Statute, Law, or Relevant Regulation
	Explanation of activity
	Republic Act No. 3765 - Truth in Lending Act
	FamilyHan operates an online lending platform which fails to provide borrowers with a Disclosure Statement and Loan Agreement as required by law. 
	Republic Act No. 10173 – Data Privacy Act of 2012
	On multiple occasions, the personal information of borrowers have been disclosed to third parties including a suspected partner or a commonly controlled entity in Hong Kong without authorization. This is  a direct violation of the law.
	Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission’s Memorandum Circular No. 19, Series of 2019 
	On multiple occasions, the personal information of borrowers have been disclosed to third parties including a suspected partner or a commonly controlled entity in Hong Kong without authorization. 
	Republic Act No. 9160 - Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2001
	The loans are granted through means of estafa (swindling) and therefore constitute unlawful money laundering activity.
	Republic Act No. 9194
	Unlawful activities captured by the Act include “[f]elonies or offenses of a similar nature that are punishable under the penal laws of other countries.” As such, the collection of loan proceeds by FamilyHan constitutes money laundering because the activities of FamilyHan constitute an indictable (felony) offense under Hong Kong’s Money Lenders Ordinance.
	Section 3.01 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of Section 4(aa) of the Bayanihan to Heal As One Act
	FamilyHan has attempted to collect loan repayments and continued to demand payment despite the mandatory grace period for all loans and interest payments. 
	Other practices which are unfair, abusive, or contrary to public interest:
1. Verbal abuse and use of derogatory terms in communications with borrowers;
2. Suspected criminal intimidation;
3. Suspected blackmail;
4. Refusing to disclose the name of affiliated entities or partners in Hong Kong;
5. Refusing to verify the accuracy of the loan agreements and payments.
	

In consideration of the above, it is necessary for BDO to use all the tools available to stop FamilyHan from engaging in further illicit activities. BDO is strongly urged to conduct proper due diligence, comply with anti-money laundering policies, and distance itself from all suspected illicit activities of FamilyHan. 


Sincerely Yours,


Samusai Intelligence


________________


EXHIBIT 1 


Sample FamilyHan Loan Agreement - Page 1 
	  

	Sample FamilyHan Loan Agreement - Page 2
	  



	Sample FamilyHan Loan Agreement - Page 3
	  





	Sample FamilyHan Loan Agreement - Page 4