SWORN STATEMENT OF MS. FLORA TARAYAO MENDOZA

I, Flora Tarayao Mendoza, Filipino citizen, of legal age 52, and a resident of Blk 8C Tower 1 Kwong Chian Mansion 351 Des Voeux Road West Shek Tong Tsui Hong Kong, hereby depose and say:


1. That on or around March 2020, I contacted but did not receive a loan from FAMILYHAN CREDIT CORPORATION (“FAMILYHAN”), a lending institution duly organized under the law of the Republic of the Philippines with its registered principal office address at 3585 San Jose St. Brgy. San Jose Antipolo City and/or 66 Jade Bldg. Sto. Nino St., Brgy. San Jose, Antipolo City, and its represented office address cited in communications as Poblacion 1, 4222 Cuenca, Batangas;

2. That in contrast to the registered principal office address and represented office address cited in communications, it is my understanding that FAMILYHAN is actually operating at 150 Ayala Hwy, Lipa, Batangas;

3. That I came to learn about FAMILYHAN from a recommendation from my friend, and I then contacted FAMILYHAN via WhatsApp message. I was asked to send information including my current employment contract, visa, etc, and I did so accordingly. FAMILYHAN asked me to wait for them to process my application and that a loan officer would call me later. I no longer have a copy of this initial WhatsApp conversation;

4. That I received a call from FAMILYHAN, in which a man speaking in Tagalog informed me that my loan would be rejected. Thereafter I made no further contact with FAMILYHAN;


   5. That on or around 18 August 2020, I found out from my employer that FAMILYHAN has sent a letter of demand to my employer’s residential address. The demand letter from FAMILYHAN or its representatives were posted locally to my employer’s place of residence in Hong Kong SAR, without any return address in Hong Kong SAR. The demand letters are stamped in red with the text “LETTER OF DEMAND” and my sensitive personal information including my passport number is on the letter. The letter alleges that I took a loan on 17 March 2020 and that my balance outstanding is 123,500 Pesos, despite the fact that they had explicitly rejected my loan application. A copy of this said demand letter is enclosed as Annex 1;

   6. That as a result of the said demand letter my employer was extremely frustrated, and my originally good working relationship with my employer has been disrupted and subject to distrust and friction due to the said alleged loan which was disclosed to my employer without my consent. I have worked with my current employer for 2 years and 7 months, with 1 year and 5 months remaining on this current contract. I have been subject to unbearable humiliation in front of my employer and her family. I am now constantly paranoid as to whether FAMILYHAN will misuse my personal information in other manners or to continue to harass me for a loan which I did not take. I also worry that as a result of the demand letter, my employer will terminate my employment or refuse to renew my otherwise steady employment;

   7. That I have subsequently contacted FAMILYHAN on Facebook Messenger, in which the representative has explicitly acknowledged that the demand letter was mistakenly posted. A copy of this conversation is enclosed as Annex 2. I also called FAMILYHAN staff on WhatsApp but no satisfactory explanation or response was provided;

   8. That I respectfully request that the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission and relevant law enforcement offices within the Philippines investigate the people, shareholders, companies, affiliates, and circumstances for possible violations of FAMILYHAN:

   9. I am willing to provide additional details and evidence to ensure my complaint and the investigation against FAMILYHAN and their affiliates is pursued to the fullest extent of the law.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto affixed my signature this 23 day of August, 2020 in Hong Kong SAR.


…….........................................................................      
 (Signature of Affiant over Printed Name) 








........................................................................      
(Signature of Witness over Printed name)
Passport number: 


	................................................................................   
(Signature of Witness over Printed Name)
Passport number: