David Bishop
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong
E-mail: DBishop@hku.hk


17 June 2020
To Whom It May Concern:


        RE: Case Support For Ms. Honeylyn Guevarra

This letter is to confirm that Ms. Honeylyn Guevarra sought advice today from the Global Migration Legal Clinic within the Faculty of Law at The University of Hong Kong.  Our clinic investigates illegal agencies and lenders, reports illicit activities to law enforcement, and assists victims to file complaints and seek the appropriate remedies.


It has come to our attention that Ms. Guevarra is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending company, FamilyHan Credit Corporation (“FamilyHan”).  In this case, FamilyHan has engaged in deceptive practices to lure victims into taking loans carrying illicit transaction fees and excessive loan interest.  Additionally, FamilyHan has failed to produce a valid loan agreement which can prove obligations on the part of Ms. Guevarra. Descriptions of further suspected violations are attached. 


As such, we have assisted Ms. Guevarra and at least 115 other victims to file official complaints as is their legal right, and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities to bring the perpetrators to justice.  We have advised Ms. Guevarra not to pay FamilyHan unless (1) FamilyHan provides the legal documents required by law, and (2) the relevant government authorities have completed their investigations on FamilyHan.  Please feel assured that Ms. Guevarra is not acting illegally by refusing to make these payments, and you should not feel pressured by any entity which forces her to pay. 


While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of FamilyHan is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt.  This is a likely attempt to get the workers fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal complaints with authorities.  Should you receive demand letters for Ms. Guevarra, please ignore them entirely.  We have already informed FamilyHan to cease and desist from sending demand letters, and that any correspondence with Ms. Guevarra should use our office address.


We ask you to fully support Ms. Guevarra as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is granted under law.  This case will not affect the work of Ms. Guevarra, nor will there be financial costs or time out of usual work hours.  By continuing to be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal behavior - which is sadly all too common in Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.


Thank you for all your support.  We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your family.  If I can be of any further assistance, please feel free to email me at DBiship@hku.hk.


Sincerely,
  

David Bishop
________________
ATTACHMENT 
List of FamilyHan Credit Corporation’s Suspected Violations


Legal Basis
	Explanation
	Money Lenders Ordinance 
(Cap. 163)
	The loans from FamilyHan carry an interest rate exceeding the limit of 60% per annum which is an indictable offence in Hong Kong.
	Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455)
	Entities in Hong Kong seeking to collect the loan monies are dealing or attempting to deal with proceeds of an indictable offence, which constitutes money laundering. 
	Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486)
	FamilyHan and its Hong Kong partner are disclosing personal information to third parties without authorization. 
	Republic Act No. 3765: 
Truth in Lending Act
	FamilyHan operates an online lending platform which fails to provide borrowers with a Disclosure Statement and Loan Agreement as required by law. 
	Republic Act No. 10173: 
Data Privacy Act
	On multiple occasions, the personal information of borrowers have been disclosed to third parties including a suspected partner or a commonly controlled entity in Hong Kong without authorization. This is a direct violation of the law.
	Republic Act No. 9160: Anti-Money Laundering Act
	The loans are granted through means of estafa (swindling) and therefore constitute unlawful money laundering activity.
	Republic Act No. 9194
	Unlawful activities captured by the Act include “[f]elonies or offenses of a similar nature that are punishable under the penal laws of other countries.” As such, the collection of loan proceeds by FamilyHan constitutes money laundering because the activities of FamilyHan constitute an indictable (felony) offense under Hong Kong’s Money Lenders Ordinance.
	Section 3.01 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of Section 4(aa) of the Bayanihan to Heal As One Act
	FamilyHan has attempted to collect loan repayments and continued to demand payment despite the mandatory grace period for all loans and interest payments. 
	Other practices which are unfair, abusive, or contrary to public interest:
1. Verbal abuse and use of derogatory terms in communications with borrowers;
2. Suspected criminal intimidation;
3. Suspected blackmail;
4. Refusing to disclose the name of affiliated entities or partners in Hong Kong;
5. Refusing to verify the accuracy of the loan agreements and payments.
	________________


附件：FamilyHan Credit Corporation 涉嫌違法行為列表


法律依據
	解釋
	《放債人條例》
（第163章）
	FamilyHan以超過年息百分之六十的實際利率貸出款項於香港屬可公訴罪行。
	《有組織及嚴重罪行條例》 （第455章）


	任何在本港欲追討欠款的組織均被介定在處理或嘗試處理從可公訴罪行中獲取的得益，可構成洗錢罪行。


	《個人資料 ( 私隱 ) 條例》
（第486章）
	FamilyHan及其香港合夥人在未得到借貸人授權下，非法將其個人資料披露予第三方。 
	Republic Act No. 3765: 
Truth in Lending Act
	FamilyHan 經營網上借貸平台，未有依法向借貸人提供一份 Disclosure Statement及有效的借貸協議書。 
	Republic Act No. 10173: 
Data Privacy Act
	FamilyHan曾多次在不同場合，於未得到借貸人的授權下將其個人資料披露予第三方，包括一懷疑合夥人或一個於本港共同管理的組織。此舉直接違例。
	Republic Act No. 9160: Anti-Money Laundering Act
	FamilyHan以詐騙手段批出貸款，可屬非法洗錢活動。
	Republic Act No. 9194
	此法案所規管的非法行為涵蓋一些「具有相似性質及可觸犯其他國家刑法的（嚴重）罪行」。因此，FamilyHan收取借貸得益的行為已可構成洗錢罪行及違反此法案，皆因其行為已構成香港《放債人條例》下的可公訴罪行。
	Section 3.01 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of Section 4(aa) of the Bayanihan to Heal As One Act
	即使在法律規定下的強制寬限期內，FamilyHan 亦曾嘗試收取債務還款及持續要求索取款項。 
	其他不公平、具侮辱性或違背公眾利益的行為：
1. 與借貸人溝通時使用言語辱罵及貶義字眼； 
2. 涉嫌刑事恐嚇；
3. 涉嫌勒索；
4. 拒絕透露在香港的附屬組織或合作夥伴的名稱；
5. 拒絕核實借貸協議和款項的準確性。