Global Migration Legal Clinic

The University of Hong Kong
K.K. Leung Room 1313
Pok Fu Lam Road, Hong Kong


E-mail: gmlc.hku@gmail.com


26 July 2020
To Whom It May Concern:


RE: Case Support For Ms. ${Firstname} ${Surname}

This letter is to confirm that Ms. ${Firstname} ${Surname} sought advice from the Global Migration Legal Clinic within the Faculty of Law at The University of Hong Kong. Our clinic investigates illegal agencies and lenders, reports illicit activities to law enforcement, and assists victims to file complaints and seek the appropriate remedies.


It has come to our attention that Ms. ${Surname} is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending company, FamilyHan Credit Corporation (“FamilyHan”). In this case, FamilyHan has engaged in deceptive and likely fraudulent practices to lure victims into loans carrying illicit transaction fees and excessive loan interest. Additionally, FamilyHan has failed to produce a valid loan agreement which can prove obligations on the part of Ms. ${Surname}. Descriptions of further suspected violations are attached. 


As such, we have assisted Ms. ${Surname} and at least 280 other victims to file official complaints as is their legal right, and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities who are actively investigating FamilyHan to bring the perpetrators to justice. We have advised Ms. ${Surname} not to pay FamilyHan unless: (1) FamilyHan provides valid legal documents required by law, and (2) all relevant government authorities have completed their investigations on FamilyHan. It is understood that most if not all remittance companies in Hong Kong have already suspended payments to FamilyHan in fear of potential liability for money laundering, as the loan monies likely constitute tainted funds. Please feel assured that Ms. ${Surname} is not acting illegally by refusing payments, and you should not feel pressured by any entity which asks her to pay. 


While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of FamilyHan is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt. This is a likely attempt to get the workers fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal complaints with authorities. Should you receive letters or messages for Ms. ${Surname}, please ignore them entirely and retain them as evidence for law enforcement. We have already informed FamilyHan to cease and desist from further communication, and that any correspondence with Ms. ${Surname} should use our office address.


We ask you to fully support Ms. ${Surname} as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is granted under law. This case will not affect the work of Ms. ${Surname}, nor will there be financial costs or time out of usual work hours. By continuing to be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal behavior - which is sadly all too common in Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.


Thank you for all your support. We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your family. If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free to email us at gmlc.hku@gmail.com. 


Sincerely,


Global Migration Legal Clinic
The University of Hong Kong
________________
List of FamilyHan Credit Corporation’s Suspected Violations


Legal Basis
	Explanation
	Money Lenders Ordinance 
(Cap. 163)
	The loans from FamilyHan carry an interest rate exceeding the limit of 60% per annum which is an indictable offence in Hong Kong.
	Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455)
	FamilyHan’s Hong Kong partner and other entities seeking to collect the loan monies are dealing or attempting to deal with proceeds of an indictable offence, which constitutes money laundering. 
	Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486)
	FamilyHan and its Hong Kong partner are disclosing personal information to third parties without authorization. 
	Republic Act No. 3765: 
Truth in Lending Act
	FamilyHan operates an online lending platform which fails to provide borrowers with a Disclosure Statement and Loan Agreement as required by law. 
	Republic Act No. 10173: 
Data Privacy Act
	On multiple occasions, the personal information of borrowers have been disclosed to third parties including a suspected partner or a commonly controlled entity in Hong Kong without authorization. This is a direct violation of the law.
	Republic Act No. 7394: Consumer Act of the Philippines
	FamilyHan fails to provide a Disclosure Statement and Loan Agreement as required under the Act. Additionally, FamilyHan engages in deceptive and unconscionable sales practices to induce borrowers into entering into loan arrangements. 
	Republic Act No. 9160: Anti-Money Laundering Act as amended by Republic Act No. 9194
	The loans are granted through means of estafa (swindling) and therefore constitute unlawful money laundering activity. Unlawful activities captured by the Act include “[f]elonies or offenses of a similar nature that are punishable under the penal laws of other countries.” As such, the collection of loan proceeds by FamilyHan constitutes money laundering because the activities of FamilyHan constitute an indictable (felony) offense under Hong Kong’s Money Lenders Ordinance.
	Section 3.01 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of Section 4(aa) of the Bayanihan to Heal As One Act
	FamilyHan has attempted to collect loan repayments and continued to demand payment despite the mandatory grace period for all loans and interest payments. 
	SEC Memorandum Circular No. 18 Series of 2019
	FamilyHan engages in unfair debt collection practices that are in contravention of this Circular. 
	Other practices which are unfair, abusive, or contrary to public interest:
1. Verbal abuse and use of derogatory terms in communications with borrowers;
2. Suspected criminal intimidation;
3. Suspected blackmail;
4. Refusing to disclose the name of affiliated entities or partners in Hong Kong;
5. Refusing to verify the accuracy of the loan agreements and payments.