13 June 2020


Via Post To:
FamilyHan Credit Corporation
66 Jade Building, Sto. Nino Street
Barangay San Jose,
Antipolo City, Rizal, The Philippines 
Via Email To: admin@familyhancredit.com.ph, s_aranas@yahoo.com 
	Via Post To:
BDO Unibank Inc. 
Attn: Chief Compliance Officer Atty. F.P. Tancongco
BDO Corporate Center, 7899 Makati Avenue
Makati City. The Philippines
Via Email To: tancongco.federico@bdo.com.ph, nvt@bdo.com.ph 
	Via Post To:
National Bureau of Investigations
NBI Building, Taft Avenue
Ermita, Manila, The Philippines
Via Email To: director@nbi.gov.ph, crd@nbi.gov.ph, aocd@nbi.gov.ph, interpol_fld@nbi.gov.ph, ahtrad@nbi.gov.ph 
	Via Post To:
Presidential Complaint Center
Bahay Ugnayan, J.P. Laurel Street Malacañang
Manila, The Philippines
Via Email To: pcc@malacanang.gov.ph 
	Via Post To:
Securities and Exchange Commision
Secretariat Building, PICC Complex Roxas Boulevard, Metro Manila, The Philippines
Via Email To: imessagemo@sec.gov.ph, cgfd_md@sec.gov.ph 
	Via Post To:
Anti-Money Laundering Council
5/F EDPC Building. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex. Mabini corner Vito Cruz Streets, Malate.1004 The Philippines
Via Email To: secretariat@amlc.gov.ph 
	Via Post To:
National Privacy Commission
5th Floor Delegation Building, PICC Complex, Roxas Boulevard, Metro Manila, The Philippines
Via Email To: complaints@privacy.gov.ph 
	

	

c.c. Financial Action Task Force (Groupe d'action financière)
Via Post To: 
2, rue André Pascal
75775 Paris Cedex 16 France
Via Email To: ExecutiveSecretary@fatf-gafi.org
	

	

REPORT OF SUSPECTED ILLEGAL LENDING OPERATION AND MONEY LAUNDERING


To Whom This May Concern,

FamilyHan has on numerous occasions charged excessive interest rates amounting to over 240% per annum on average, failed to provide valid loan agreements, verbally abused and harassed victims, disclosed victims’ personal data, and sent demand letters to the employers of victims without consent of both employers and victims in an apparent attempt to get the victims fired. The illicit activities of FamilyHan are of grave concern/


This letter is a formal complaint against FamilyHan Credit Corporation and its overseas partners (collectively “FamilyHan”) for suspected violations of law including Republic Act No. 3765, Republic Act No. 10173, publications by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and money laundering offences in Hong Kong and the Philippines. 


In response to this letter, it is requested that the Securities and Exchange Commision, National Bureau of Investigations, National Privacy Commission, Anti-Money Laundering Council and Presidential Complaint Center take all necessary resolutory, investigative, and enforcement actions to uphold the law and (1) ensure that FamilyHan and its directors or representatives are held accountable for all unlawful conduct, and (2) scrutinize the failure of BDO Unibank Inc. to take prompt action despite being previously notified of FamilyHan’s violations on numerous occasions. It is also requested that the Financial Action Task Force note the contents of this letter, liaise with the authorities, and consider the responses of national authorities in forthcoming evaluations of national anti-money laundering standards. 


In light of the violations to be explained in this letter, FamilyHan and the authorities should note the following:
1. NGOs and lawyers have advised all victims to ignore payment demands from FamilyHan and its alleged partners, collection agents and representatives unless and until FamilyHan provides victims with a copy of a valid loan agreement and evidence of the loan principal and interests owed under the same agreement. Until then, victims cannot be certain if they owe additional funds to FamilyHan. The agreement can be provided in the following manners:
   1. By email to globalmigrationassistance@gmail.com; 
   2. By post to Rm 15B1, 15/F Cheung Fat Industrial Building, 7-9 Hill Road, Shek Tong Tsui, Hong Kong.
2. NGOs and lawyers have already advised employers of victims that the loan may be illegal. Any further attempts by FamilyHan or its alleged partners, collection agents or representatives to contact the employer will likely constitute harassment or criminal intimidation under Hong Kong law. Many victims, NGOs, and lawyers are already in contact with relevant law enforcement to prevent continued harassment and unwarranted disclosure of personal data. 
3. FamilyHan should take prompt action to comply with the applicable statutes and regulations. 


An explanation of suspected violations follows. 

Republic Act No. 3765 Truth in Lending Act:
FamilyHan has regularly violated Republic Act No. 3765. Despite repeated requests, FamilyHan has refused to disclose information pertaining to Section 4: "(5) the total amount to be financed;", "(6) the finance charge expressed in terms of pesos and centavos”; and, “(7) the percentage that the finance bears to the total amount to be financed expressed as a simple annual rate on the outstanding unpaid balance of the obligation.”

Figure 1 - extract of Republic Act No. 3765
	  

	Source:  https://www.lawphil.net/statutes/repacts/ra1963/ra_3765_1963.html
	
Similarly, despite repeated requests, FamilyHan refuses to provide copies of the loan documents. This is highly suspicious and raises questions as to whether the loan document contains illegal provisions. Without a copy of the loan agreement, there is no certainty that victims are paying the actual owed amount. FamilyHan has made nonsensical balance adjustments and added on previously undisclosed transaction fees, interest fees, penalties, and other additions. However, it is doubtful that any of these balance add-ons are legally binding. Unfortunately, FamilyHan is denying the simple but important request without valid reason. For instance, FamilyHan has informed victims that they can only have a copy of the contract after she pays the full balance, but there is no information on how FamilyHan calculated the balance and without the loan document it is unverifiable. 

Implementing Rules and Regulations of Section 4(aa) of Republic Act No. 11469
FamilyHan has ignored the mandatory grace period prescribed by the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Section 4(aa) of Republic Act No. 11469 and subsequent extensions of the mandatory grace period prescribed by the SEC in its notice dated 13 May 2020.


Figure 2 - Extract of Implementing Rules and Regulations of Section 4(aa) of Republic Act No. 11469
	  

	Source: https://www.officialgazette.gov.ph/downloads/2020/04apr/20200401-IRR-RA-11469-RRD.pdf 
	

Figure 3 - Extract of Notice by the Securities and Exchange Commission dated 13 May 2020
	  

	Source: http://www.sec.gov.ph/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/2020Notice_MECQ.pdf 
	

Notwithstanding clear instructions from authorities regarding the mandatory grace period, FamilyHan’s conduct shows complete disregard and ignorance of the need for compliance. During the grace period, namely 17 March 2020 to 31 May 2020, FamilyHan has engaged in the following conduct:


1. Demanded payment from victims by WhatsApp, message, and/or calls;
2. Verbally abused victims who made reference to the grace period; 
3. Sent numerous demand letters to the addresses of victims, explicitly signed and dated in the period between 17 March 2020 and 31 May 2020 (see Exhibit 2); and
4. Insisted that either the mandatory grace period was optional, or suggested that victims were not forced to pay during the grace period yet threatened victims with sending demand letters or calling their employers without their consent.


SEC Memorandum Circular No. 18 Series of 2019:
In addition to the above violations, FamilyHan has openly violated the SEC Memorandum Circular No. 18 Series of 2019 by:
1. Disclosing personal information to third parties;
2. Making threats of legal action that cannot legally be taken;
3. Disclosing personal information and financial information to third parties with intent to threaten and blackmail; and
4. Using false or misleading names and hiding the true identity of collectors and staff.

Figure 4 - Extract of SEC Memorandum Circular No. 18 Series of 2019
	  
  

	Source: http://www.sec.gov.ph/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/2019MCNo18.pdf
	

Republic Act No. 10173 - Data Privacy Act of 2012:
In addition to the above, FamilyHan has violated Republic Act No. 10173 by:
   1. Disclosing personal information to an overseas partner without explicit and agreed consent;
   2. Disclosing personal information to third parties;
   3. Failing to provide a copy of the data (personal information) and loan agreement that FamilyHan has;
   4. Failing to provide "Reasonable access to, upon demand, the following:
   1. Contents of his or her personal information that were processed;
   2. Sources from which personal information were obtained;
   3. Names and addresses of recipients of the personal information;
   4. Manner by which such data were processed;
   5. Reasons for the disclosure of the personal information to recipients;
   6. Information on automated processes where the data will or likely to be made as the sole basis for any decision significantly affecting or will affect the data subject;
   7. Date when his or her personal information concerning the data subject were last accessed and modified; and
   8. The designation, or name or identity and address of the personal information controller;"
   5. Failing to provide a method of data correction; and
   6. Et Al


In particular, FamilyHan has provided the victims’ names and their employers’ addresses to an undisclosed partner entity in Hong Kong which has been using this information to send unwarranted demand letters to victims’ employers. Furthermore, FamilyHan has continuously refused to disclose the particulars of this Hong Kong partner despite the letters being posted and stamped as local letters, instead insisting it has no connections to Hong Kong.


Indeed, the violations of Republic Act No. 10173 are numerous and of significant impact. Substantial portions of the Republic Act No. 10173[1] are being violated and FamilyHan is operating with impunity. Given such, it is requested that the National Privacy Commission conduct a prompt investigation into FamilyHan and assist victims in obtaining full and true copies of the data, contract, and other personal data withheld by FamilyHan - as well as provide victims with the opportunity for correction.


Suspected Money Laundering


The loans granted by FamilyHan carry interest rates in excess of 240% per annum. The maximum interest rate allowed in Hong Kong is 60%, and exceeding this rate amounts to an indictable offence under the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163). It follows that the loan is invalid and enforceable under Hong Kong. Further collection or dealing with the proceeds of the loan would constitute money laundering, which is defined as dealing with property known or believed to represent proceeds of an indictable offence under the the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455). In this instance, the indictable offence would be charging excessive interest contrary to the Money Lenders Ordinance as explained above, and the property representing proceeds of this indictable offence would be the loan monies. Notably, the money laundering offence may be committed even if FamilyHan’s charging of excessive interest is conducted overseas, as court decisions have authoritatively confirmed that the relevant conduct is assessed under Hong Kong law.


FamilyHan has been referring borrowers to make payments to FamilyHan’s Philippines bank account through remittance companies and financial service providers in Hong Kong. Such entities are all at risk of money laundering as explained above, and indeed, numerous remittance companies have already stopped remitting money to FamilyHan, suggesting they too agree with the analysis above. 


There may be numerous grounds for FamilyHan’s money laundering in the Philippines. One ground is that Republic Act No. 9194 captures unlawful activities including “[f]elonies or offenses of a similar nature that are punishable under the penal laws of other countries." As such, the collection of loan proceeds by FamilyHan constitutes money laundering because the activities of FamilyHan constitute an indictable (felony) offense under Hong Kong’s Money Lenders Ordinance and by the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance. Given this, it is requested that the Anti-Money Laundering Council, National Bureau of Investigations and all law enforcement agencies immediately conduct investigations into the conduct of FamilyHan. The Financial Action Task Force is requested to note the contents of this letter and consider the responses of authorities in its forthcoming publications on the anti-money laundering standards of the relevant countries. 


In light of the violations and explanations above, it is kindly requested that FamilyHan provide the loan documents of the victims listed in Exhibit ! and promptly take action to become compliant with the applicable statutes and regulations.

It is requested that FamilyHan respond in writing within 7 days by email to globalmigrationassistance@gmail.com or by post to RM 15B1, 15/F Cheung Fat Industrial Building, 7-9 Hill Road, Shek Tong Tsui, Hong Kong. 


Nothing herein constitutes a waiver of rights or remedies of the victims, all of which are expressly reserved. 


Sincerely Yours,

/s/ Mayflor Lenon Arandia

Mayflor Lenon Arandia






________________



SAMPLE DEMAND LETTERS SENT BY FAMILYHAN’S HONG KONG PARTNER


SAMPLE ENVELOPES 
	  

  

  

	Significance: the letters used postage for local letters sent in Hong Kong ($2 HKD), indicating there is an undisclosed office of FamilyHan or a partner entity, collection agency or other representative posting the letters for FamilyHan. As seen by the stamp, demand letters were also sent during the mandatory grace period prescribed by the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Section 4(aa) of Republic Act No. 11469 and supplemented by the Notice of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
	



________________




SAMPLE LETTER CONTENTS
	  

	Significance: the letter was sent to the address of the victim’s employer without consent of either the victim or employer. The letter was sent on 24 April 2020 which falls within the mandatory grace period prescribed by the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Section 4(aa) of Republic Act No. 11469 and supplemented by the Notice of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
	

________________
[1] https://www.privacy.gov.ph/data-privacy-act/#11