SWORN STATEMENT OF MS. MYRA ORIGEN TACARDON
AFFIDAVIT

I,  Myra Origen Tacardon, Filipino citizen, of legal age 37, and a resident of G/F Block B Country Villa, 28 Shouson Hill Road, Hong Kong, after having been duly sworn in accordance with law, hereby depose and say:


1. That I am a borrower of FAMILYHAN CREDIT CORPORATION (“FAMILYHAN”), a lending institution duly organized under the law of the Republic of the Philippines with its registered principal office address at 3585 San Jose St. Brgy. San Jose Antipolo City and/or 66 Jade Bldg. Sto. Nino St., Brgy. San Jose, Antipolo City, and its represented office address cited in communications as Poblacion 1, 4222 Cuenca, Batangas;

2. In contrast to the registered principal office address and represented office address cited in communications, it is my understanding that FAMILYHAN is actually operating at 150 Ayala Hwy, Lipa, Batangas;

3. That on or around 5 March 2020, I applied online for a loan from FAMILYHAN for the amount of 30,000 Pesos. As part of the online loan application process, FAMILYHAN received and processed data and photographs including my passport number, Hong Kong identity card, employment contract, and other personal information;

4. That although I applied for a loan of 30,000 Pesos, FAMILYHAN charged an undisclosed processing fee of 3,400 Pesos, thus I did not receive the full amount of the loan;

5. That FAMILYHAN provided an amount of 26,600 Pesos, to be payable in 2 monthly instalments of 19,500 Pesos. The interest rate of this loan therefore amounts to approximately 279.6996% per annum. No loan agreement or disclosure statement was provided to me regarding the said loan, hence it has not been possible for me to ascertain the true amounts demanded by FAMILYHAN or its representatives;

6. Since I am an Overseas Filipino Worker taking employment in Hong Kong SAR, my payment for the said loan can only be made through remittance companies in Hong Kong SAR. However, remittance companies in Hong Kong SAR have refused payments to FAMILYHAN due to potential violations of Hong Kong SAR laws, rules and regulations in dealing with funds relating to FAMILYHAN. Namely, it is understood that the interest rate of FAMILYHAN loans are in significant excess of the maximum allowed limit under Hong Kong SAR law which constitutes an indictable offence, and subsequent dealings of loan monies with requisite knowledge may constitute money laundering offences under the laws of Hong Kong SAR;

7. Given that the activity of FAMILYHAN constitutes an indictable offense pursuant to the laws Hong Kong SAR, it reasons that the subsequent transfer, handling, dealing, and processing of the funds to and from the Philippines constitutes a violation of Republic Act No. 9160, as amended by Republic Act Nos. 9194, 10167 and 10365. Specifically, an indictable offense is equivalent to a felony offense and thus the activity of FAMILYHAN is prohibited pursuant to Part 34 of Paragraph T defining "Unlawful Activity" as set forth within Republic Act No. 9160, as amended;

8. Because authorities and remittance companies in Hong Kong SAR have blocked all transactions to FAMILYHAN due to ongoing money laundering investigations, I was unable to pay FAMILYHAN. FAMILYHAN retaliated against me by sending me various messages and calls from FAMILYHAN using various phone numbers on WhatsApp beginning with “+63”. In these calls FAMILYHAN repeatedly demanded payment, harassed me, and threatened me;

9. That demand letters from FAMILYHAN or its representatives were posted locally to my employer’s place of residence in Hong Kong SAR, without any return address in Hong Kong SAR. The demand letters are stamped in red with the text “LETTER OF DEMAND” and my sensitive personal information including my passport number is visible even from the unopened envelope;

10. That FAMILYHAN is not duly registered or licensed in Hong Kong SAR to conduct business in whatever form. FAMILYHAN has nonetheless disclosed my sensitive personal information to an undisclosed representative or third party in Hong Kong SAR which posts the demand letters to my employer’s place of residence. There is no return address in Hong Kong SAR because FAMILYHAN has no authorized presence in Hong Kong SAR, and FAMILYHAN has failed to disclose the identity of the persons responsible for posting such demand letters. FAMILYHAN and its representatives flagrantly violate numerous laws of Hong Kong SAR and may be actively encouraging and inducing money laundering activity to be committed in Hong Kong SAR, to the prejudice of the name of our country;

11. That because of the demand letters received at my employer’s place of residence, my originally good working relationship with my employer has been disrupted and subject to distrust and friction due to the said loan which was disclosed to my employer without my consent. My otherwise stable employment is now under significant threat;

12. That also, the harassment and threats of FAMILYHAN has caused me significant mental anguish, emotional distress and sleepless nights. I am under unbearable humiliation, paranoia of incoming messages and calls from FAMILYHAN, and constant fear that FAMILYHAN will likewise harass my employer which may lead to termination of my otherwise stable employment;

13. In accordance with the severity of the suspected crimes elaborated on within this sworn statement, I respectfully request that the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission and relevant law enforcement offices within the Philippines investigate the people, shareholders, companies, affiliates, and circumstances for possible violations of:
   1. Republic Act No. 3765;
   2. Republic Act No. 9160, as amended;
   3. Republic Act No. 10173;
   4. All other relevant statutes, administrative rules, or applicable                         regulations.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto affixed my signature this 22 day of August , 2020 in Hong Kong SAR.


........................................................................      
 (Signature of Affiant over Printed Name)