Complainant
Unit 906, 9/F., 
One Mong Kok Road Commercial Centre, 
1 Mong Kok Road, Kowloon


To whom it may concern, 


I am a Hong Kong citizen concerned about the potential malpractice of Overseas Employment Centre (hereinafter ‘the agency’) in Central. Their address is Room 403, 4th floor, On Lok Yuen Building, 25 Des Voeux Road Central, Central, Hong Kong. Please see the attachment for your reference.


I have been in contact with an anonymous employer who wished not to disclose his name. Attached please find the information necessary for suspicions of operations of Overseas Employment.


Evidence would suggest that Stella Ho, on behalf of the agency, requested an additional payment of $2,500 HKD in an email dated on 16 January, 2018. (see Exhibit 1) The payment was alleged to be an agency fee to the Philippines agency to expedite the commencement of their service contract. The employer was asked to advance the payment for the helper. The agency also advised that the payment could be deducted from the first month salary of their hired helper. 
An invoice (No.: I-C49707) was issued by the agency on 20 January, 2018. (See Exhibit 2) Subsequently, the couple made the payment and sent the receipt to Stella Ho on 22 January, 2018. 


It is of grave concern that the practice is illegal on the following grounds,
1. The commission fee charged against the helper should be no more 10% of her first month salary under Part II, Schedule II of Employment Agency Regulations (Cap. 57A).
2. There is strong reason to believe that both the Philippines agency and Overseas Employment were to benefit from this additional payment. It is because the employer was given the proof of the transmission of payment from Overseas Employment to the Philippines agency, leaving the purpose of additional charge unjustified. 
3. Stella Lau had initiated a loan arrangement between the employer and employee, without the latter’s consent, which is arguably an offence.
4. Under s.32 of Employment Ordinance (Cap. 57), employers are prohibited from deducting employee’s wages unless the circumstances fall within the exceptions of the same provision. Yet, this case falls short of the exceptions. 
5. Deduction of $2,500 HKD from first month salary violates the statutory requirement in s.32(3) of Cap. 57, that the total deductions should not exceed one half of the wage payable in one wage period. In the current case, the deduction obviously exceeds one half of the statutory wage. 
Despite your constrained resources and limited manpower, I sincerely urge the EAA to take prompt actions to look into this matter and initiate proceedings against the agency in question. The large scale of operations of Overseas Employment suggests that your ignorance to its unlawful dealings are hampering many employers and FDHs. If more details are needed, please do not hesitate to contact me at this email.


Yours sincerely,
Ranness Chung
11 April, 2018


Enclosures:
Exhibit 1: Overseas Employment_Payment Request
Exhibit 2: Payment invoice by Overseas
Exhibit 3: Fwd_ Expedite letter and attachments - David L.pdf