Mr. Kuen-fai JP Wong
The Commissioner of Inland Revenue, 
G.P.O. Box 132, 
Hong Kong
	2C Greenburg Court
Discovery Bay City
 Lantau Island, HK


	1 March 2018


Dear Mr. Wong, 


RE:        APPLICATION FOR PRE-INCORPORATION        TAX EXEMPTION OF CHARITABLE INSTITUTION


This letter and the enclosed documents are hereby submitted in hopes of obtaining confirmation of pre-incorporation tax exemption for our future company, Migrasia Foundation Limited (Migrasia). Migrasia is a charitable organization founded for the purpose of advancing education, helping the underprivileged, and promoting Hong Kong’s socio-economic sustainability, primarily through the promotion of a fair, ethical and humane migration labour chain and working environment in Hong Kong and the construction of a more transparent employment market.
        
Our purpose will be raising the public’s awareness towards labour and employment issues. Although the government has been putting undue effort to refine codes and enhance protection towards both local and migrant workers in Hong Kong, many of them still struggle in our city due to the society’s indifference towards their working environment. Migrasia will help them through educating the public on the impact and importance of them as well as guiding and educating the workers of their rights. In addition to helping workers understand their rights and best navigate the employment markets, Migrasia will also help education employers on the importance of an ethical supply chain and how the very complex and often poorly understood chain of labor will impact Hong Kong’s future socio-economic stability and success. Migrasia hopes to promote the future macroeconomic stability of Hong Kong through constructing a more transparent and ethical working environment and labour supply chain in our city, thus, it can retain and attract more local and migrant workers whom have been contributing to our economic growth for the last few decades.


With the escalating population of the elderlies and dual income families, it is foreseeable that the demand for foreign domestic helpers will rise in the coming decade; nevertheless more countries (possibly more favourable countries, such as Canada and New Zealand) are discussing to refine their immigration system and allowing more imported domestic workers. Facing mounting local demand and intensifying competition for labors, Hong Kong has to step up and sustain our attractiveness towards the migrant workers. Hong Kong should as well introduce domestic workers from more diversified countries to tackle this potential labor shortage. Migrasia as a non-profiting and advocator of ethical employment aims to take part in solving this widening deviation of demand and supply of worker and assist the process of introducing workers from new origins through a just and humane labor supply chain which can not only help to stabilise Hong Kong macroeconomy but as well build Hong Kong as a conscientious city.


The founding of Migrasia comes at a critical time. With increased globalization, aging populations, and a exponentially growing demand for domestic workers and care-givers throughout the world, Migrasia’s overarching goal is to ensure Hong Kong does not loose vital labor to other countries as a result of an inefficient labor market.


Migrasia will be non-profit making, and is completely charitable in nature. Our purpose is to educate the public, to build a more worker-friendly working environment and labour supply chain in Hong Kong and to lead our city into a more prosperous future, in terms of both our economic growth and reputation as a favourable working city worldwide. 


Attached please find (1) our Articles of Association and (2) an outline of activities in the next twelve months from the date of our incorporation. 


Yours sincerely,






David Bishop
Founder, Migrasia Foundation Limited