CC - kittytsui@cr.gov.hk, crenq@cr.gov.hk


Dear Miss Lee,


Thank you for your response sent on 27 April and the referral of my case to the Licensing Office of the Hong Kong Police Force for further attention. I would like to seek clarity on the statement you made regarding the responsibilities of the Registrar of Money Lenders. 


You mention that the Registrar is "responsible for processing applications for money lenders licences, renewal of licences and endorsement on licences, as well as maintaining a register of money lenders (“MLs”) for inspection by members of the public while the Commissioner of Police is responsible for enforcing the Money Lenders Ordinance, Cap.163 of the Laws of Hong Kong (“MLO”) and investigations of complaints against MLs." 


This statement forsakes Registrar's responsibility to the public to receive and investigate complaints against violating Money Lenders and the Registrar’s general supervisory duties--which are outlined within the Money Lenders Ordinance and further affirmed by multiple public announcements and demonstrated via various public channels. I point you to the literature attached. 


Please advise on how the Registrar of Money Lenders could continue to support my case given the responsibilities of the Registrar that I have outlined. 


Regards,


Angelita






Public Guidance / Announcement
	Supporting Text and Content
	Relevance to the Money Lender Registrar’s Investigative and Supervisory Duties
	Money Lenders Ordinance - Section 28: 
Power of Registrar and police to enter premises and inspect books, etc.


https://www.elegislation.gov.hk/hk/cap163?xpid=ID_1438402764582_002




	Extract from the Money Lender Ordinance:1 


“Where—
(a) the Registrar or any other person authorized in writing for the purposes of this section by the Registrar; or
(b) a police officer of or above the rank of superintendent or any other police officer authorized in writing for the purposes of this section by a police officer of or above such rank, has a reasonable suspicion that a money lender has committed an offence against this Ordinance (in this section referred to as the suspected offence), he may enter any premises where the business of the money lender is being carried on and may demand the production of and inspect the money lender’s licence or any books, accounts, documents or writings relating to any loan made by the money lender or relating to his business as a money lender, and may take notes, copies or extracts thereof or therefrom.”
	As outlined by the Money Lenders Ordinance, the registrar and the police have authority to investigate Money Lenders and their premises and books on suspicion of violation of the ordinance. 
	2019-2020 Companies Registry Annual Report


https://www.legco.gov.hk/yr20-21/chinese/counmtg/papers/cm20201021-sp006-ec.pdf




	Extract from the Page 7 of the CR 2019-2020 Annual Report:2


“...to step up our enforcement efforts, we also set up dedicated onsite inspection teams to carry out site inspections on companies, TCSPs and licensed money lenders to ensure their compliance with relevant statutory requirements, applicable licensing conditions and the relevant anti-money laundering or counter-terrorist financing (“AML/CTF”) requirements.”
	In the General Manager’s remarks about the 2019-2020 progress of the Companies Registry, they indicated that the CR has taken a proactive approach with onsite inspections of licensed money lenders. 


This means that the Registrar’s duties extend beyond the remit you outline in your email and does, in fact, cover investigative actions. The CR also has precedence with conducting supervisory duties via onsite inspections. 
	Legislative Council Question 20: Regulation of Money Lenders 


https://www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/201906/19/P2019061800628.htm


	Extract from of a question from the Hon Elizabeth Quat and a written reply by the Secretary for Financial Services and the Treasury, Mr James Lau3


“(2) and (3) Licensed money lenders provide an alternative source of finance for individuals and enterprises with financial needs outside the banking system. Currently, the Licensing Court, the Police and the Money Lenders Unit (MLU) of the Companies Registry have respective roles to play under the regulatory regime for money lenders. The Licensing Court is responsible for the determination of applications for and granting of money lender licences as well as the imposition of licensing conditions. The Police is responsible for enforcing the Money Lenders Ordinance (MLO), including examination of applications for money lender licences and renewal of licences, and investigating complaints against money lenders. As for the MLU, it is responsible for processing applications for money lender licences, maintaining a register of money lenders for public inspection, as well as adopting risk-based supervisory measures to monitor licensed money lenders' compliance with the MLO and the conditions imposed by the Licensing Court when carrying on their money lending business. The MLU also conducts site inspections to ensure licensed money lenders have appropriate systems and measures in place for their business operations.” 
	In a response to the LegCo, the Secretary for Financial Services and Treasury validated that the Money Lenders Unit of the Companies Registry is responsible for monitoring, ensuring compliance to the ordinance, and inspecting the operations of licensed money lenders. 
	Companies Registry Website: Complaints Against Licensed Money Lenders


https://www.cr.gov.hk/en/services/money-lenders/complaints.htm




	Extract from Companies Registry Page:4


See appendix for web page image of the Companies Registry Intake channels for complaints relating to Licensed Money Lenders 
	The Companies Registry is capable of taking complaints against violating Money Lenders and thus, should also be able to investigate and act on such complaints as outlined in the Money Lenders Ordinance as well as other public statements. 
	1-4Note: See appendix for screenshots of extracted source materials 




Appendix: 
	1. 
	  

	2. 
	  

	3. 
	  

	4.