Date
	Summary of Event/Activity
	Result 
	2019
	On at least two separate occasions it was reported by complainants that HKPF said a cross border money laundering syndicate was committing no crime in Hong Kong because although the loan carries excessive interest it was granted overseas.

This statement was made despite the fact that numerous banks, money service operators, and financial companies have already closed accounts and blocked transactions related to the syndicate.
	The apparent lack of knowledge on the extraterritorial applicability of the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance has caused significant delays and hindrances in numerous money laundering schemes whereby money lending syndicates use Hong Kong to send, receive, and handle proceeds from indictable offenses, such as excessive interest, committed in local and overseas money lending transactions.
	2020
	HKPF were reluctant to inquire about multiple online money lenders targeting Hong Kong residents and implied that no investigation could be launched because it was not possible to prove that perpetrators were in Hong Kong. This reluctance continued despite the fact that tens of thousands of demand letters for excessive interest loans were being sent via local postal mail (without a return address) and over 10 financial institutions in Hong Kong began blocking the transactions related to this syndicate.
	As a result, the syndicate was able to continue its illicit lending operations and cause significant damage to thousands of Hong Kong residents and their employers. This activity continued until overseas law enforcement took action in 2021.
	April 2021
	Mr. U called at least one domestic helper and reportedly informed this domestic helper that she must withdraw her complaint against Rich Credit Finance Limited.


In the words of the domestic helper:

“Mr. U of police department of Central called and he said to me to drop the case about to rich credit because rich credit is not illegal lender and I need to pay the rich. What happen the result to need help your agency..because still harassing to my employer using the private no.and also to my family.thank you.. My question  is this is true what Mr.U said to me?”
	As a result, the domestic helper became extremely discouraged and frustrated that her complaint was not being taken seriously. Furthermore, it appears as though the domestic helper’s access to justice was prejudiced because the police are acting to close complaints against Rich Credit Finance Limited with unreasonable haste and without conducting a thorough investigation.

Furthermore, it seems as though a premature determination on the legality of Rich Credit Finance Limited was made without reviewing or appropriately considering the Money Lenders Ordinance, Money Lenders Regulations, and Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders. 

Judging by the haste in which this conclusion was made and considering similar actions taken by authorities it appears as though there is an incorrect consensus within law enforcement agencies that if a money lender has a license then they are legal and there is no need to conduct an investigation.
	March 2021
	According to a witness, a police officer investigating a complaint from a domestic helper against Rich Credit Finance Limited used demeaning, discouraging, and apparently unsupported language that left the domestic helper likely questioning the actual intentions and purpose of the police.

As reported by the domestic helper the police officer said:

“all the complaints are make up stories ... Because he really make it clear to me..YOU SIGNED THAT UNDER TAKING YOU ARE BOUND TO AGREE WHAT IS WRITTEN IN THERE”
	As a result of the verbal representations of the police officer and apparent lack of interest to investigate the actual truth left the domestic helper extremely discouraged and seemingly questioning the intelligence of the police officer in charge.

Furthermore, the domestic helper was inappropriately told by the police officer that if a document is signed it must be paid. However, basic analysis would show that any signed document must comply with the Money Lenders Ordinance and other provisions in order to be enforceable.

Instead of applying a methodical and analytical approach to determine if the circumstances and force of the agreement is is incompliance with the law, the police office simply told the domestic helper it must be paid and convinced the domestic worker to request no further police assistance.
	April-May2021
	At least one police officer received a report of violations of licensing conditions, among other things, and told the complainant that the police can not investigate privacy concerns and that privacy concerns must be reported to the PDPO.
	As a result, it appears as though suspected violations of licensing conditions will not be investigated by the HKPF and instead the complaint will be forwarded to the PCPD which does not have in place a procedure to object to a money lenders license. Furthermore, at the conclusion of the PCPD investigation flowchart, the case will likely be forwarded back to the HKPF for follow-up thus making the referral to the PCPD seemingly an inefficient use of time and government resources if the case will simply get forwarded back to the HKPF after months or years.

Furthermore, in this situation, the unauthorized publication of personal photos and personal information includes threats of “estafa/fraud” cases if the alleged debtor did not pay. Such behavior constitutes significant criminal activity under the Crimes Ordinance because it is unlawful for someone to threaten someone else with a criminal case in order to coerce them into taking action. Unfortunately, the police seemed content that money lenders are allowed to threaten criminal cases against borrowers as a valid means of collection.
	2019-2021
	At least 8 other incidents where domestic helpers have expressly complained that the HKPF are not taking complaints against money lenders seriously and that the HKPF appear to have a lack of understanding or lack of interest in the Money Lenders Ordinance, Money Lenders Regulations, and Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders. Many incidents include: (i) HKPF unwilling to arrange an interpreter for domestic helpers; (ii) HKPF unwilling to arrange a statement on weekends; (iii) police not reviewing or otherwise ignoring written submissions of domestic helpers; (iv) HKPF forwarding the complaints to other departments.
	As a result, it is estimated that at least 13 illicit lenders have been able to continue operating in non-compliance with the law dealing in over 20,000,000 HKD in suspected crime proceeds for significant and repetitive violations of the law such as indictable offenses including excessive interest, criminal intimidation, unlicensed banking, blackmail, and other unlawful activities.
	2020-2021
	Despite multiple arrests and thousands of victims, it appears as though no material objection was filed by the HKPF or CR in relation to the application for license renewed filed of a money lender suspected of victimizing thousands of domestic workers through excessive interest loans granted to pay illicit agency fees.

Similarly, the HKPF has taken no material action to object to license applications of other money lenders engaging in similar schemes.
	As a result, these lending companies have been given significant free reign to continue engaging in illicit schemes which possibly results in more prohibited activities and more victims.
	2014-2021
	In multiple civil cases judges in Hong Kong SAR have come to conclusions that certain money lenders engaged in illicit activity.

Unfortunately, the HKPF has been reluctant to launch investigations based on these conclusions. Indeed, it has been reported that the HKPF will make statements to the effect that no action can be taken unless a victim files a report.
	By not launching an inquiry based on activities accepted as true within judicial proceedings the HKPF are significantly limiting their ability to conduct intelligence and efficient law enforcement activities to ensure money lenders comply with the law.
	2021
	Institutional bias by officials (Small Claims Tribunal, Police, Companies Registry, Etc)


An adjudicator at the Small Claims Tribunal made a remark to the effect that the fact that money lenders charge excessive interest is irrelevant, and borrowers must still pay their loans. This is despite the fact that the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163) renders loan agreements entirely unenforceable in the event that excessive interest is charged. In fact, the Hong Kong Court of First Instance has opined that the effect of the excessive interest provision is to render entire loan agreements unenforceable, and it does not give rise to any obligation for a borrower to repay any amount under the loan agreement. See Skyline Credit Ltd v Leung Hing Chung [2019] HKCFI 169 at paragraphs 128 and 129. The adjudicator followed this remark by saying that “Filipino migrant domestic workers take out too many loans.” 


In several instances, adjudicators at the Small Claims Tribunal have denied applications for representation brought by migrant domestic workers seeking to file claims against money lenders. This is despite the adjudicators being informed that migrant domestic worker claimants usually only have one day off per week which is fixed by their employers (in most instances to a Saturday or Sunday), and as a result, they are unable to personally attend any hearings which take place on weekdays. 
	As a result, victims of illicit and aggressive debt collectors have been unable to seek redress through criminal or civil mechanisms, as institutional barriers and biases prevent officials from taking complaints seriously and seemingly applying the laws incorrectly. 
	April-June 2021
	Police were unable to recognize that threats of jail and sham criminal cases against an alleged borrower could be a crime.

See LM 460 / 21
	Money lenders and collectors appear to be aware that the HKPF is generally not able to recognize criminal intimidation and blackmail as an illicit collection technique, thus money lenders and collectors continue to engage in such unscrupulous activities.
	2018-2021
	The HKPF and CR have been hesitant to include any significant calls to action or provide encouragement for witnesses to come forward and file complaints.

For example, in a recent case the HKPF seized a large number of passports from money lenders. Unfortunately, the HKPF did not issue any press release or publish any contact information that victims and witnesses could use to provide information about the case.
	By not conducting a press conference or providing easily accessible contact information there is an unnecessarily limited number of individuals who could serve as witnesses and prosecution witnesses which makes the job of the HKPF and CR more difficult and less efficient.

Other law enforcement agencies, such as the Customs & Excise Department regularly include information and contact details for crime reporting in their own press releases and this information is usually published in newspapers and online media as well.
	2020-2021
	The FTSB, CR, HKPF, PCPD, and Labour Department routinely forward cases to each other which causes confusion and prevents there from being a clear reporting mechanism.

For example, it has been documented that when a domestic worker reports that an employment agency without a money lending license is engaged in a money lending business, the HKPF will not investigate the case for unlicensed lending and will instead forward the case to the Labour Department.

Moreover, a significant number of witnesses reported suspected illegal lending to the FTSB. The FTSP forwarded the concerns to the CR. The CR then stated they can not investigate and that the appropriate department is the HKPF. After receiving the complaint and follow-up details the HKPF forwarded the case to the PCPD and did not investigate the suspected licensing condition violations.
	The lack of a sector specific regulator makes it extremely difficult and cumbersome for a witness to make a report that is actually investigated.
	2020-2021
	CE&D regularly receives complaints concerning combination money lenders and electronics retailers. These suspect entities usually sell electronic devices, such as cell phones, by first granting the customer a loan and then requiring the customer use all or some of the loan proceeds to purchase an electronic device. Even though these entities use materially false and misleading information in their advertising the CE&D forwards the case to the HKPF despite the fact that money lenders are not exempt products or persons as stated in the Trade Descriptions Ordinance.

In these cases, the HKPF will usually not investigate the case because the suspect entities represent that they are not lending money but simply providing products to be paid for on an installment basis. Despite this, it seems as though the HKPF has not forwarded the case back to the CE&D and limited if any follow-up action has occurred.
	There are at least four major syndicates that employ the strategy of becoming a licensed money lender in order to avoid scrutiny for suspected violations of the Trade Descriptions Ordinance. The lack of law enforcement inquiries into these syndicates has allowed them to grow significantly and operate over thirty stores that engage in these illicit practices.
	2018-2021
	Despite there being significant evidence of unlawful activity in publicly accessible profiles, pages, and groups on social media law enforcement authorities are overly reluctant to review this information.

For example, throughout 2019 and 2020, a large number of money lenders would post photos of borrowers on various Facebook pages in order to harass these borrowers into making payments on alleged debts. A cursory review of these photos would show that the background of the photo matched the physical description and layout of the money lender’s office in Hong Kong. Thus, it was clear that the money lender was taking photos of borrowers from within their office. Unfortunately, despite numerous reports of this, law enforcement took no material action and various Facebook pages still exist online showing photos of borrowers being taken from within money lender offices which is a direct violation of the Money Lenders Regulations.


Moreover, there exist a large number of Facebook profiles, pages, and groups that engage in doxxing, unlicensed lending, withholding passports, charging excessing commission, and aggressive collection activities. Reviewing the names, photos, and information on these Facebook URLs will reveal the particulars of the money lenders behind the Facebook URLs and link the money lenders to the illicit online behavior. Unfortunately, it has been reported that the HKPF is not considering this publicly accessible information and will not start an investigation despite the illicit activity being easily visible to anyone with a web browser.
	Money lenders feel as though they are immune from responsibility for their online activities. As a result, very serious crimes occur online and are committed by licensed and unlicensed money lenders who are not subject to law enforcement inquiry for their egregious online activities.
	2019-2021
	Many law enforcement officers have been reported to make blanket statements that any sign document must be followed. These statements by law enforcement have been reported even when the document in question is an illegal agreement pursuant to the money lenders and in instances where the loan carries excessive interest.

Furthermore, the HKPF appears unaware of the requirements for a valid civil contract. Indeed, in many instances where borrowers, co-borrowers, or references were coerced to sign an agreement the HKPF has stated that the coercion doesn’t matter and the signed agreement must be followed. This erroneous advice has apparently been given to numerous domestic workers who were forced to sign various documents under threat of termination because the money lender and its collectors would tell these domestic workers if they did not sign they would harass the domestic worker’s employer until they were terminated.

Similar coercion has been reported that involves physical threats, false promises, fraud, and other actions of the money lender that would certainly void the agreement - yet law enforcement only conducts a cursory check to see if the document is signed and does not inquire about the circumstances and threats.
	As a result, many borrowers are lead to believe that an illegal agreement must be paid even if the loan agreement is determined to be enforceable by the text of the Money Lenders ordinance. Moreover, in situations where there is excessive interest, it is entirely possible that  statements of law enforcement officers have facilitate money laundering by encouraging victims to make payments on excessive interest loans which results in the money lender receiving proceeds of an indictable offense.
	2019-2021
	On multiple occasions reports have been submitted to the HKPF concerning unlicensed savings accounts being operated by money lenders. The HKPF has referred these complaints to the HKMA but the HKMA can not take any action because the HKMA can only investigate licensed banks and licensing savings products. It appears as though some members of the HKPF do not know that the HKPF is responsible for investigating unlicensed banking activities.
	For many years a significant number of money lenders in Hong Kong have offered unlicensed savings accounts to loan customers. These savings accounts, formally known as deposit taking accounts, are operated without a license from the HKMA and are in violation of the Banking Ordinance, yet the prevalence of these unlicensed deposit taking accounts continues to increase.
	2017-2021
	There is insufficient scrutiny concerning the registration of appointed third party money lenders.
	A large number of money lenders have appointed third parties in arrangements that raise serious suspicion and facilitate illicit activities.

For example, a number of money lenders have granted employment agencies the power to grant loans - despite the fact that the Employment Ordinance specifically prohibits employment agencies from being involved in a money lending business.
	2018-2021
	Despite receiving hundreds of complaints and significant reports of erroneous money lending activities, the HKPF and CR have rarely objected to the granting or renewal of money lending licenses.

Moreover, many law enforcement officers have reportedly told complainants that if a money lender has a license then it must be following the law.
	Many money lenders will tell investigating officials, victims, and others that they have a license from the licensing court as an attempt to convince others that their business and loans are legal.

This backwards logic has resulted in the erroneous belief from certain law enforcement officers that a licensed money lender can not be investigated because they must be following the law otherwise a license would not be granted.