Money Lender Quick Reference Table

Did the lender force you to reloan?
Is the lender attempting to collect money from you for the loans of your references? 
Did the lender force you to purchase certain products? 
Has the lender been harassing your references? 
Has the lender been harassing your employer? Calling the landline, calling their mobile
Has the lender been sending demand letters to your employer’s residence?
Have debt collectors visited your employer’s residence?


Reason For Complaint
(Mga dahilan para sa reklamo)
	Source Of Law
(Pinagmumulan ng Batas)
	Check
(tsekan)
	Including processing, deposit, application, or other fees did the lender charge an interest rate of over 60% per annum?

(Kasama ang pagproseso, deposito, aplikasyon, o iba pang bayarin, Naningil ba ang nagpapahiram ng interes na may rate na higit pa sa 60% ka da taon?)
	Money Lenders Ordinance


	

	Did the lender require or offer unlicensed “savings” / “deposit taking account”?


(Kinailangan o nag-alok ba ang nagpapahiram ng isang hindi lisensyadong "savings" / "deposit-taking account"?)
	Banking Ordinance
	

	Did the lender fail or refuse to provide a copy of the loan agreement?


(Nabigo o tumanggi ba ang nagpapahiram na magbigay ng kopya ng loan agreement?)
	Money Lenders Ordinance


	

	Did the lender require you to send money via a remittance company, place money within a mastercard, or use part of the loan proceeds to buy electronics or other products/services?


(Kinailangan ka ba ng nagpapahiram na magpadala ka ng pera sa pamamagitan ng remmitance na kumpanya, o maglagay ng pera sa isang mastercard, o gamitin ang bahagi ng na nakalikom na utang upang bumili ng  electronics o iba pang mga produkto/serbisyo?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
Trade Descriptions Ordinance
	

	Did the lender require a personal picture as security for the loan?


(Kinailangan ba ng nagpapahiram ang isang personal na larawan bilang seguridad sa utang?)
	Money Lenders Regulations
	

	Did the lender withhold your passport or HKID as security for the loan?


(Kinumpiska at pinagkait ba ang iyong passport o HKID bilang seguridad sa utang?)
	Money Lenders Regulations
	

	Did the money lender accept reference information without written authorization from the reference?


(Tinanggap ba ng nagpapahiram ang impormasyon ng reference nang walang nakasulat na pahintulot mula sa reference?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
	

	Did the lender disclose your personal information to third parties (employer, friends, family, or publicly on social media)?


(Inihayag ba ng nagpapahiram ang iyong personal na impormasyon sa mga third party (halimbawa sa mga amo, kaibigan, pamilya, o publikong nilagay sa social media?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
	

	Did the lender engage in repetitive behavior that could constitute harassment?
(Ang nagpapahiram ba ay mag ugali na paulit-ulit na maaaring maging sanhi ng harassment?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
	

	Did the lender share an office with a remittance company?


(Ang nagpapahiram ba ay nakikibahagi ng opisina kasama ang isang remittance na kumpanya?)
	Money Service Operators Licensing Guide
	

	Did the lender fail to provide a summary of the Money Lenders Ordinance?


(Nabigo ba ang nagpapahiram na magbigay ng buod ng Money Lenders Ordinance?)
	Money Lenders Regulations
	

	Other


(Iba pa)
	

	

	

Potential Actions
Actions
	Check
(tsekan)
	Send a demand letter to the lender requesting a copy of the loan agreement and payment records.
	

	Send a Data Access Request under Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance and request personal data
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to cease and desist calling all references who have not furnished written authorization to be a reference.
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to provide a refund of all processing and savings fees.
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to cease harassing behavior such as house visits and repetitive calls.
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to delete any photos taken as security for the loan.
	

	Send a demand letter requesting compensation for harassment. See https://www.tannerdewitt.com/court-confirms-tort-harassment-hong-kong/ 
	

	File small claims suit
	

	Conduct additional research
	

	


Narrative (Interview) Questions
Formal Police Reports / Civil Claims


1. Name?
2. Age?
3. Marital status?
4. Education level?
5. Amount of time in Hong Kong?
6. When did Client first learn about the lender?
7. How did the Client first learn about the lender (facebook ad, friend, flyer, advertisement, etc)?
8. Who did the Client speak to first at the lender (name of staff, phone number, business card, etc)?
9. Why did the Client apply for the loan?
10. Where did the Client apply for the loan?
11. When did the Client apply for the loan?
12. What information did the Client provide to the lender?
13. What information did the lender give or explain to the Client?
14. Elaborate on nominal loan principal, processing fees, savings fees and any supporting evidence (receipts, conversations)?
15. See below police reports for other potential questions and information to include
16. Ask:
   1. Processing fees
   2. Savings accounts
   3. Address
   4. Was license visible in the office
   5. Name of staff
   6. Description (body build, glasses, hair color, eye color)
17. Try to write questions that will find violations of MLO, MLR, and/or licensing conditions


These questions serve as a backbone to a police report. Example questions / reports:


* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A6A3tUVfsfbGDvO8zQaXYG4Mp0YMcyn_DGAUKRg2S78/edit 


Example Police Reports


* Sample HKPF statement against Rich Credit for reference (authorized for disclosure).
* Sample HKPF statement
* More detailed sample statement on HKPF statement form
* More sample or redacted HKPF, EAA, or other statement can be made available
* Other police reports:
   * https://drive.google.com/drive/u/3/folders/1BRWJCKvck-q5VATNmIgjPkv3t8xQF4Vk
   * EAA Reports with money lenders involved
* HKPF questions regarding Niaga Finance Company Limited
________________




Interview questions for domestic worker:


Background
1. What is your name?
2. What is your age?
3. What is your marital status?
4. What is your education level?
5. What is the amount of time you have spent in Hong Kong?
6. Are you still in HK at the moment?
7. When did you arrive in Hong Kong?
   1. If possible, please provide relevant proof, eg electronic plane ticket, VISAs or landing slips, etc.


First Contact with Lender
8. When did you first learn about the lender?
9. How did the you first learn about the lender (facebook ad, friend, flyer, advertisement, etc)?
10. If you were referred by your agency:
   1. What was the name of your Philippines agency?
   2. Which staff in the agency referred you to the lender?
   3. Can you provide any information about the staff, eg telephone number, business card, etc?
   4. Can you give a description of the staff, eg body build, glasses, hair color, eye color?
   5. When does the referral take place?
   6. Did the referral take place shortly before your flight to Hong Kong?
   7. Did you have enough time to consider applying for the loan?
* Was the Client free to choose whom to borrow money?
   1. Where does the referral take place, eg inside the lender’s office, inside the agency’s office?
   2. Did your agency charge a high placement fee?
      1. If yes, what was the fee make up of, eg medical fee, training fee, etc.?
      2. Please provide any documentary evidence for each of the components.
   3. Did your agency withhold your personal document, eg passport?
      1. If yes, what were the documents withheld?
      2. If yes, did your agency ask you to apply for a loan in order to get the documents back?
      3. If yes, did your agency provide your personal information to the lender on your behalf?
      4. If yes, when did your agency return your personal document to you?
11. What was the name of the lender’s staff you first spoke with?
   1. If possible, please provide any supporting information: eg, telephone number, business card, advertisement, flyers, etc.
12. Can you give a description of the staff, eg body build, glasses, hair color, eye color, uniform etc.?
13. How many people were inside the lender’s office?
14. Were there CCTVs inside the lender’s office?
15. Apart from money-lending, was there any other business activities ongoing?
16. Were there any staff from banks present inside the lender’s office?
17. Were you allowed to take pictures inside the lender’s office?
   1. If yes and you did take a picture, please provide the relevant picture
18. Was the lender’s licence visible in the lender’s office?
19. Do you have any more description/information about the layout/environment of the lender’s office?
20. Why did you apply for the loan?
21. Where did you get your loan documents?
22. When did you apply for the loan?
23. Did you sign on any contracts, concerning the loan application?
24. If yes, when did you sign the relevant contracts?
25. Did you have enough time to consider applying for the loan?
26. Did the lender give you a copy of the relevant contracts?
27. If yes, please provide the relevant contract.
28. Did you sign on any contracts before receiving the loan amount?
29. When did the lender’s staff explain the details of the loan to you?
   1. Did the lender explain the details of the loan to you before or after you signed the loan agreement?
30. When did you receive the loan amount?
31. What is the time gap between you receiving the loan amount and taking the flight to Hong Kong?
32. What information did you provide to the lender, eg passport, employment agency in Hong Kong, information about your friends/family, information about your employer in Hong Kong, etc.?
33. Did you provide the above information by yourself?
34. If not, who provided the above information?
35. Did you consent to the provision of the above information?
36. If yes, was there any written consent recorded by the lender?
37. What information did the lender give or explain to you?
38. Please provide the relevant documents and information.
39. What was the interest rate represented by the lender?
40. Was the interest rate represented an annual rate, a monthly rate, or both?
41. Was there any additional charge to your loan, eg legal costs?
42. If yes, did the lender mention the additional charge?
43. Did the lender mention any consequences if you fail to repay, eg ESTAFA/B.P 22?
44. Did the lender share an office with a remittance company?
45. Was the lending business separated from the remittance business?


Bank Account
46. Did your lender ask you to open a bank account?
47. What was the name of the bank?
48. What was the branch?
49. Please provide any information about the opening of the bank account.
50. Where did you open the bank account, eg, at the bank, the lender’s office?
51. Were your accompanied by the lender when you open the bank account?
52. When did you open the bank account?
53. Was there a depositing/processing fee charged?
   1. If yes, was the fee previously disclosed to you?
   2. If yes, please provide evidence of the fee, eg the receipt
54. Did the lender ask you to sign a blank check?
   1. If yes, did the lender forfeit the check?
   2. If yes, did the lender mention any potential legal action if you fail to pay?


The Loan
55. What was the loan period?
56. What was the principal?
57. was the principal the same amount as the money actually received?
58. If no, what was the amount actually received?
59. If not, what were the “expenses deducted”?
60. Were the expenses deducted mentioned/disclosed by the lender?
61. Please provide any documentary proof of the expenses deducted.
62. In relation to the expenses deducted, did you raise any followup questions to the lender?
63. If yes, what was the lender’s response?
64. Did you receive a disclosure statement/statement of account, or any relevant documents?
65. If yes, did you receive the disclosure statement/statement of account, or any relevant documents before entering into the loan agreement?
66. If no, when did you receive the disclosure statement/statement of account, or any relevant documents before entering into the loan agreement?
67. Please provide the disclosure statement/statement of account, or any relevant documents.
68. If you did not receive a disclosure statement/statement of account, or any relevant documents, did you request for one?
69. What was the lender’s response when you request for a disclosure statement/statement of account, or any relevant documents?
70. Up to the present, how much have you paid?
71. How much did you pay per month?
72. How many months have you paid?
73. What is the interest per month?
74. How much have you left unpaid for the loan?
75. Did you undertake a loan of another person?
76. If yes, did you voluntarily undertake the loan?
77. Were you required to repay for a loan of another person that they did not undertake?
78. Were you required to repay for a loan of another person that they undertook?
79. Did you apply for a reloan?
80. If yes, when did the Client apply for a reloan?
81. If yes, why did the Client apply for a reloan?
82. If yes, what are the details of the reloan?
83. Please fill in a new google form for the details of the reloan.


Payment
84. Did the lender send the you any method of payment eg Ali-pay, WeChat pay, payment via 7-11, bank transfer, cash payment at the lender’s office, etc.?
85. If yes, please provide evidence, e.g. any screenshots / QR Code?
86. How did you repay the loan?
87. Please provide evidence of the payment.
88. If you paid via remittance:
      1. What was the name of the remittance company?
      2. What was the purpose of the payment named as, eg family support, loan repayment?
      3. How was the lender described as, eg your relative, your lender, etc?
      4. Can you provide any information relating to the lender’s account?
89. If you paid to a personal remitter
   1. What was the name of the remitter?
   2. Was there any information about the remitter provided by the lender, eg personal ID, telephone number, address, date of birth, etc.?
90. If you transferred money to her relatives in the Philippines to repay the lender
   1. Did you do this out of your own initiative, or were you asked by the lender to do so?
91. How did you inform the company after the repayment was made?
92. Did you receive any receipt from the lender after the repayment was made?
93. If yes, please provide the relevant documents.
94. Was there any punishment or consequences for any defaulted repayment?


Demand of payment
95. How did the lender contact you after the lending? Eg via facebook, text messages, etc.?
96. What was the account/telephone number?
97. Please provide evidence, eg screenshots.
98. Manner of collection/contact:
   1. When did the lender contact you, was it during reasonable hours, or during early mornings and late nights?
   2. Did the lender use any insults?
   3. Did the lender use any threats?
      1. If yes, did the lender threaten to make any lawsuits, eg B.P 22 or ESTAFA case?
      2. If yes, please provide evidence, eg screenshots
      3. If yes, did the lender make any threats concerning you or your closed one’s personal safety?
      4. If yes, please provide evidence, eg screenshots
      5. If yes, did the lender threaten to send a demand letter?
      6. If yes, please provide evidence, eg screenshots
   4. Did the lender post any of your personal information, e.g. name, photos, ID documents?
   5. If yes, where did the lender post your personal information, eg on social media?
99. Other than contacting the Client/co-borrower, did the lender contact your family or friends?
   1. If yes, how did the lender contact the Client’s family or friends? Eg via facebook, text messages, etc.?
   2. If yes, did you provide the information of your family or friends to the lender?
   3. Please provide evidence as to the content of the conversation.
100. Other than contacting the Client/co-borrower, did the lender contact your employer?
   1. If yes, how did the lender contact your employer? Eg via facebook, text messages, etc.?
   2. If yes, did you provide the information of your employer to the lender?
   3. Please provide evidence as to the content of the conversation.
101. Was your employer aware of your loan application?
102. Did you make any report? Eg to the Philippines consulate, to PESO, etc.?