Money Lender Quick Reference Table

Reason For Complaint
(Mga dahilan para sa reklamo)
	Source Of Law
(Pinagmumulan ng Batas)
	Check
(tsekan)
	Including processing, deposit, application, or other fees did the lender charge an interest rate of over 60% per annum?

(Kasama ang pagproseso, deposito, aplikasyon, o iba pang bayarin, Naningil ba ang nagpapahiram ng interes na may rate na higit pa sa 60% ka da taon?)
	Money Lenders Ordinance
	

	Did the lender require or offer unlicensed “savings” / “deposit taking account”?


(Kinailangan o nag-alok ba ang nagpapahiram ng isang hindi lisensyadong "savings" / "deposit-taking account"?)
	Banking Ordinance
	

	Did the lender fail or refuse to provide a copy of the loan agreement?


(Nabigo o tumanggi ba ang nagpapahiram na magbigay ng kopya ng loan agreement?)
	Money Lenders Ordinance
	

	Did the lender require you to send money via a remittance company, place money within a mastercard, or use part of the loan proceeds to buy electronics or other products/services?


(Kinailangan ka ba ng nagpapahiram na magpadala ka ng pera sa pamamagitan ng remmitance na kumpanya, o maglagay ng pera sa isang mastercard, o gamitin ang bahagi ng na nakalikom na utang upang bumili ng  electronics o iba pang mga produkto/serbisyo?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
Trade Descriptions Ordinance
	

	Did the lender require a personal picture as security for the loan?


(Kinailangan ba ng nagpapahiram ang isang personal na larawan bilang seguridad sa utang?)
	Money Lenders Regulations
	

	Did the lender withhold your passport or HKID as security for the loan?


(Kinumpiska at pinagkait ba ang iyong passport o HKID bilang seguridad sa utang?)
	Money Lenders Regulations
	

	Did the money lender accept reference information without written authorization from the reference?


(Tinanggap ba ng nagpapahiram ang impormasyon ng reference nang walang nakasulat na pahintulot mula sa reference?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
	

	Did the lender disclose your personal information to third parties (employer, friends, family, or publicly on social media)?


(Inihayag ba ng nagpapahiram ang iyong personal na impormasyon sa mga third party (halimbawa sa mga amo, kaibigan, pamilya, o publikong nilagay sa social media?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
	

	Did the lender engage in repetitive behavior that could constitute harassment?
(Ang nagpapahiram ba ay mag ugali na paulit-ulit na maaaring maging sanhi ng harassment?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
	

	Did the lender share an office with a remittance company?


(Ang nagpapahiram ba ay nakikibahagi ng opisina kasama ang isang remittance na kumpanya?)
	Money Service Operators Licensing Guide
	

	Did the lender fail to provide a summary of the Money Lenders Ordinance?


(Nabigo ba ang nagpapahiram na magbigay ng buod ng Money Lenders Ordinance?)
	Money Lenders Regulations
	

	Other


(Iba pa)
	

	

	

Potential Actions
Actions
	Check
(tsekan)
	Send a demand letter to the lender requesting a copy of the loan agreement and payment records.
	

	Send a Data Access Request under Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance and request personal data
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to cease and desist calling all references who have not furnished written authorization to be a reference.
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to provide a refund of all processing and savings fees.
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to cease harassing behavior such as house visits and repetitive calls.
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to delete any photos taken as security for the loan.
	

	Send a demand letter requesting compensation for harassment. See https://www.tannerdewitt.com/court-confirms-tort-harassment-hong-kong/ 
	

	File small claims suit
	

	Conduct additional research
	

	Potential STR/JFIU report
	

	Contacting / reporting to bank AML/ CFT officers
	

	


















Narrative (Interview) Questions


1. Example statements: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V3LwEgMd8Wj8ZaSCraPG6PznqNh2tx-J/view?usp=sharing 
2. Name?
3. Age?
4. Marital status?
5. Education level?
6. Amount of time in Hong Kong?
7. When did Client first learn about the lender?
8. How did the Client first learn about the lender (facebook ad, friend, flyer, advertisement, etc)?
9. Who did the Client speak to first at the lender (name of staff, phone number, business card, etc)?
10. Why did the Client apply for the loan?
11. Where did the Client apply for the loan?
12. When did the Client apply for the loan?
13. What information did the Client provide to the lender?
14. What information did the lender give or explain to the Client?
15. Elaborate on nominal loan principal, processing fees, savings fees and any supporting evidence (receipts, conversations)?
16. See below police reports for other potential questions and information to include
17. Ask:
   1. Processing fees
   2. Savings accounts
   3. Address
   4. Was license visible in the office
   5. Name of staff
   6. Description (body build, glasses, hair color, eye color)
18. Try to write questions that will find violations of MLO, MLR, and/or licensing conditions
19. Did you receive the loan via WeChat, Alipay, TNG, or other mobile wallets?
20. Do you have transaction receipts of the loan disbursement?
21. Do you have transaction receipts of the loan payments?
22. Do you have whatsapp conversations that can be exported?
23. What damages has the lender caused you?
   1. Did the lender cause your termination?
   2. Has your employer deducted your salary?
   3. Has the lender threatened you with your personal information?
   4. Has the lender withheld any of your documents as collateral?
24. Try to get creative as possible.












These questions serve as a backbone to police reports and potential civil claims. Example reports:


Example Police Reports


* Sample HKPF statement against Rich Credit for reference (authorized for disclosure).
* Sample HKPF statement
* More detailed sample statement on HKPF statement form
* More sample or redacted HKPF, EAA, or other statement can be made available

________________
Interview questions for domestic worker:


Background
   1. What is your name?
   2. What is your age?
   3. What is your marital status?
   4. What is your education level?
   5. What is the amount of time you have spent in Hong Kong?
   6. Are you still in HK at the moment?
   7. When did you arrive in Hong Kong?
   1. If possible, please provide relevant proof, e.g. electronic plane ticket, VISAs or landing slips, etc.


First Contact with Lender
   8. When did you first learn about the lender?
   9. How did you first learn about the lender (facebook ad, friend, flyer, advertisement, etc)?
   10. If you learned about the lender on facebook, what is the:
   1. Name of the Page?
   2. Facebook Name of the person managing the page?
   3. Is the facebook page still active?
   11. If you were referred by your agency:
   1. What was the name of your Philippines agency?
   2. Which staff in the agency referred you to the lender?
   3. Can you provide any information about the staff, e.g. telephone number, business card, etc?
   4. Can you give a description of the staff, e.g. body build, glasses, hair color, eye color?
   5. When did the referral take place?
   6. Did the referral take place shortly before your flight to Hong Kong?
   7. Did you have enough time to consider applying for the loan?
   * Was the Client free to choose whom to borrow money?
   * Did you understand the content/ instruction/ terms of the loan? 
   1. Where did the referral take place, e.g. inside the lender’s office, inside the agency’s office?
   2. Did your agency charge a high placement fee?
   1. If yes, what was the fee made up of, e.g. medical fee, training fee, etc.?
   2. Please provide any documentary evidence for each of the components.
   3. Did your agency withhold your personal document, e.g. passport?
   1. If yes, what were the documents withheld?
   2. If yes, did your agency ask you to apply for a loan in order to get the documents back?
   3. If yes, did your agency provide your personal information to the lender on your behalf?
   4. If yes, when did your agency return your personal document to you?
   12. What was the name of the lender’s staff you first spoke with?
   1. If possible, please provide any supporting information: eg, telephone number, business card, advertisement, flyers, etc.
   13. Have you ever met the lender’s staff in person? If yes:
   1. Can you give a description of the staff, eg body build, glasses, hair color, eye color, uniform etc.?
   14. Why did you apply for the loan?
   15. Where did you get your loan documents?
   16. Is there a hardcopy for the loan documents?
   17. When did you apply for the loan?
   18. What was the amount of the loan
   19. What is the loan amount actually received?
   1. Did the lender deduct a processing fee?
   2. Did the lender deduct a “savings account deposit”?
   3. Did the lender deduct other fees?
   20. Did the lender mention the additional charge?
   21. What is the amount of repayment each month?
   22. When do you have to repay each month?
   23. Did you sign on any contracts, concerning the loan application?
   1. If yes, when did you sign the relevant contracts?
   24. Did the lender give you a copy of the relevant contracts?
   25. If yes, please provide the relevant contract.
   26. Did you sign on any contracts before receiving the loan amount?
   27. When did the lender’s staff explain the details of the loan to you?
   1. Did the lender explain the details of the loan to you before or after you signed the loan agreement?
   28. When did you receive the loan amount?
   29. What information did you provide to the lender, e.g. passport, employment agency in Hong Kong, information about your friends/family, information about your employer in Hong Kong, etc.?
   30. Did you provide the above information by yourself?
   31. If not, who provided the above information?
   32. Did you consent to the provision of the above information?
   33. If yes, was there any written consent recorded by the lender?
   34. What information did the lender give or explain to you?
   35. Please provide the relevant documents and information.
   36. Did the lender mention any consequences if you fail to repay?




The Loan
   37. What is the loan period?
   38. What is the loan amount? Did the lenders provide you with loan options?
   39. What was the principal?
   40. Was the principal the same amount as the money actually received? If not: 
   1. what was the amount actually received?
   2. If not, what were the “expenses deducted”?
   3. Were the expenses deducted mentioned/disclosed by the lender?
   41. What is the amount of repayment each month?
   42. When do you have to pay each month? 
   43. Have you received any loan agreement? 
   44. If yes, Does the loan agreement include the following information:
   1. Name and address of the money lender
   2. Name and address of the borrower
   3. Name and address of the surety, if any
   4. Amount of the principal of the loan in words and figures
   5. Date of making of the agreement
   6. Date of the making of the loan
   7. Terms of repayment of the loan
   8. Form of security for the loan, if any
   9. Rate of interest charged expressed as a rate per cent per annum
   45. Are you provided with a copy of the loan agreement
   46. How did you receive the loan? 
   47. Through Cash? Online Banking? WeChat Pay? Alipay?
   48. Did you provide your photo to secure the loan?
   49. Did you provide information about your employer to the lender?
   50. Up to the present, how much have you paid?
   51. How many months have you paid?
   52. What is the interest per month?
   53. How much have you left unpaid for the loan?




Payment
   54. Did the lender send you any method of payment e.g. Ali-pay, WeChat pay, payment via 7-11, bank transfer, cash payment at the lender’s office, etc.?
   55. If yes, please provide evidence, e.g. any screenshots / QR Code?
   56. How did you repay the loan?
   57. Please provide evidence of the payment.
   58. How did you inform the lender after the repayment was made?
   59. Would the lender remind you to pay before each payment deadline?
   60. Did you receive any receipt from the lender after the repayment was made?
   61. If yes, please provide the relevant documents.
   62. Was there any punishment or consequences for any defaulted repayment? In particular, 
   1. Additional payment?


Demand of payment
   63. How did the lender contact you after the lending?
   64. Via facebook, Whatsapp, or phone calls, etc.?
   65. What was the account/telephone number?
   66. Please provide evidence, e.g. screenshots.
   67. When did the lender contact you, Was the timing reasonable or during early mornings and late nights?
   68. Would the lender contact on weekdays or weekends?
   69. Did the lender use any insults?
   70. Did the lender use any threats?
   1. Did the lender threaten to make any lawsuits, eg B.P 22 or ESTAFA case? 
   2. Did the lender make any threats concerning you or your closed one’s personal safety?
   3. Did the lender threaten to make house visits?
   4. Did the lender threaten to contact your employer
   5. If yes, please provide evidence, eg screenshots
   6. Did the lender actualize the threats?


   71. Did the lender post your personal information on social media?
   1. Did the lender post your name?
   2. Did the lender post your photo
   3. Did the lender post your ID information?
   4. Did the lender post your address?
   5. Did the lender post your loan details
   72. If applicable, how did the lender contact your family, friends or employers?
   1. Did the lender contact via facebook, text messages, etc.?
   2. If yes, did you provide the information of your family or friends to the lender?
   3. Please provide evidence as to the content of the conversation.
   73. Was your employer aware of your loan application?
   74. Did you make any report? Eg to the Philippines consulate, to PESO, etc.?