Summary of cases
	Legal violations
	Illicit debt collection activities (such as rampant doxxing of borrowers) through the publication of private personal information (which are often defamatory) on social media pages. This doxxing often occurs even if the underlying loan agreement is clearly invalid and even if the loan is fully paid off.

* Video screen recordings can be submitted upon request
	* Contravention of MLR, MLO, and/or Licensing Condition 
* Violations of Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance Cap. 486 (“PDPO”)
* Criminal and tortious offences relating to harassment and intimidation, and blackmail
* Defamation
	Money lenders share office space with remittance companies (money service operators) without any apparent separation of business activities despite the fact that the Licensing Conditions prescribe clear and wide separation of business operations in this regard.


See below for a list of money lenders that share offices with money service operators:

* https://www.change.org/p/hong-kong-financial-regulators-enforce-the-licensing-conditions-for-money-lenders-licensing-guide-for-msos 
* https://www.scmp.com/news/hong-kong/hong-kong-law-and-crime/article/2155292/data-lays-bare-hidden-links-hong-kongs
	* Violation of the Licensing Conditions by:

   1. Failing to abide by the 1st licensing condition by failing to follow the requirements for handling a third party agreement;
   2. Enabling money lenders and to engage in harassment, bait and switch sales tactics, etc.;
   3. Sharing private personal information between businesses without consent.


	A large number of online money lenders engage in unlicensed money lending, usury, and other frauds. In our experience, this includes multiple schemes that charge interest rates exceeding 600% per annum and at least one scheme whereby the money lender disclosed the personal information of thousands of Hong Kong employers. For example:
   * https://www.privacy.gov.ph/2021/01/privacy-commission-orders-lender-familyhan-to-take-down-list-online-of-6000-borrowers/ (where thousands of data points of Hong Kong residents were disclosed in this databreach, including sensitive information)
   * A large number of online lenders target individuals in Hong Kong SAR with loans carrying usurious interest rates exceeding 10% per month.
	   * Violation of the Licensing Conditions, MLO, and MLR
   * Fraud and similar criminal activities
   * Violations of the PDPO
	The primary loan management software used by money lenders provides functionality to commit unlawful acts. For example, the software is designed to calculate interest rates and late fees incorrectly and on an inflated basis.
   * Code analysis can be submitted upon request

	      * Violation of the Licensing Conditions, MLO, and MLR
      * Fraud and similar criminal activities under Hong Kong law
	Recently, numerous licensed money lenders such as True Credit Limited have been filing claims against borrowers at the Small Claims Tribunal (“SCT”), despite the fact that the SCT has no jurisdiction for the types of claims brought by licensed money lenders. These claims are an abuse of the judicial process and likely brought in an attempt to harass and intimidate borrowers into settling alleged debts.

Not only do these money lenders abuse the judicial process, they also divert the Judiciary’s resources from genuine litigants who seek recourse through the SCT. Moreover, by filing claims in such a manner, money lenders are indirectly using the Judiciary as a means for their debt collection. 
	      * Licenced money lenders are not eligible to file cases in the Small Claims Tribunal (therefore amounting to an abuse of process)
	Several money lenders have been forcing customers to use their loan proceeds to purchase electronics, often through installment arrangements, whereby prohibited processing and application fees are charged. In many instances, the prices of the products purchased are inflated on receipts issued to customers in an effort to hide the imposition of excessive and prohibited fees. Such arrangements result in borrowers having to pay excessive interest (exceeding 60% per annum) on installment plans for the purchase of products. The money lenders and their co-conspirators will often use terms such as “prepaid interest”, “down payment”, “application fee”, “copy fee”, “711 fee”, or other terms in an attempt to obfuscate the prohibited processing fees being charged.

In many instances the money lender will be the same entity that is selling the products, however, in other instances there will be another corporate entity with the same address as the money lender and is usually owned by the same ultimate beneficial owner as the money lender.
	      * Violations of the Money Lenders Ordinance and Licensing Conditions
      * Violations of the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance
	Licensed money lenders and affiliates have been issuing fake receipts to customers to hide their involvement in certain illicit schemes. This has been documented especially in the case of money lenders which force customers to use loan proceeds to purchase electronics or to remit money overseas. One money lender has been documented to have inflated the prices of several electronic and beauty products either in an effort to hide the fact that excessive and prohibited processing fees and interest are being charged, or to hide the fact that remittance services are being facilitated by the money lender despite not holding a valid money service operator license. 


It should also be noted that the prices that appear on these receipts do not match the prices that are advertised on the websites or advertising materials published by these money lenders. The inflated prices fraudulently depict the loan principal as being much higher than is actually disbursed to borrowers. For instance, if a borrower is forced to buy a mobile phone worth $1500, the receipt often indicates a much higher price, e.g. HK$2000. As a result, when interest is calculated solely based on the figures that appear on the receipt, it does not appear to be excessive (when in fact, such is not the case). If interest is calculated based on the true cost of the product, the interest rate exceeds 60% per annum. It is clear that issuing fake invoices and receipts is therefore nothing more than an attempt to evade liability under the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163). 


Another example is where a money lender would provide loan proceeds to fund a remittance transaction, which the borrower would have to repay in several loan installments. The remittance transaction is usually processed by a money service operator located on and operating from the same premises as the money lender, often without any adequate distinction between the two businesses – which  is a violation of the Licensing Guidelines for Money Service Operators. It is also worth noting that the remittance agent and money lender in these cases is often owned and controlled by the same entities and/or persons. In an effort to hide the fact that the money service operator and money lender are operating on the same premises without adequate separation and distinction, fake invoices are issued. For instance, where the money lender asks the borrower to use loan proceeds to remit money, the receipt often incorrectly shows that the loan amount is being used for the purchase of a product rather than for remittance. It is clear that by omitting the remittance transaction from money lenders’ receipts, the entities are able to avoid the appearance that they are operating on the same premises. Such fraudulent invoices also attempt to hide the flow of potentially illicit and unlawful proceeds between the money lender and remittance agent. 
	      * Violations of the Theft Ordinance and Crimes Ordinance (using a false instrument, fraud, false accounting).
      * Attempt to evade liability under the Money Lenders Ordinance, Guidelines for Money Service Operators, and the Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance. 
	A large number of money lending syndicates set up overseas entities in jurisdictions such as the Philippines and Indonesia and use these overseas entities to target Hong Kong residents with excessive interest loans.

These syndicates, which are often controlled by beneficial owners in Hong Kong, use social media to target Hong Kong residents and then disperse and collect excessive interest loans through the use of Hong Kong based money service operators, stored value facilities, and online banking services.


Because the loans carry interest rates in excess of 60% per year, the money service operators, stored value facilities, online banking services, and ultimate beneficial owners are suspected of dealing in the proceeds of indictable offenses and may be liable for money laundering activities.
	      * Violations of the Money Lenders Ordinance
      * Violations of the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance
	A number of money lending syndicates in Hong Kong use overseas appointed and unappointed third parties and agents in order to grant excessive interest loans in overseas jurisdictions such as the Philippines and Indonesia. These loans are then transferred to Hong Kong entities for collection and loan management.
	      * Violations of the Money Lenders Ordinance
      * Violations of the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance
	Overseas money lenders leverage the light regulation of money service operators and stored value facilities in order to send and receive money that relates to excessive interest loans.
	      * Violations of the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance
	Money lenders have commonly advertised and required borrowers to deposit part of their loan principals into “savings accounts”, despite not having a license to do so from the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. Operating a deposit taking service without such a license constitutes an indictable offence pursuant to Section 12 of the Banking Ordinance. “Savings accounts” suggest that funds may be deposited or withdrawn. However, this label is deceptive as borrowers are in fact unable to retrieve deposits. Money Lenders regularly deduct money from the “savings accounts” of borrowers and their references to satisfy defaulted loans without the consent of either party. 
	      * Violations of Licensing Condition 14 of the Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders, AML Guidelines, Banking Ordinance (Section 12), Theft Ordinance and Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance
	Money lenders use a range of tactics to threaten, intimidate and coerce borrowers into paying illegal and unenforceable loans. Commonly witnessed threats have included sending excessive text messages; making excessive phone calls to the borrower as well as the borrower’s employer, employer’s relatives, friends, and family members; sending demand letters to the employer’s residence; visiting and trespassing the employer’s home by way of bypassing security; as well as posting on Social Media and contacting the borrower’s friends on Social Media to demand payment. Additionally, money lenders utilise a ‘reference’ system, whereby borrowers become guarantors for other borrowers and are liable to settle the loans of borrowers who have named them as “referee”. Money lenders will then threaten and harass “referees” via excessive phone calls and text messages to demand payment. 


A commonly observed tactic of money lenders is to threaten to contact the borrower’s employer by way of letters, phone calls and text messages, threaten to harass references and family members, using abusive language and profanities and in some cases death threats to intimidate the borrower. This behaviour is unacceptable, causing significant distress to borrowers and constitutes improper debt collection practices under the MLO. Further, this behaviour may amount to criminal intimidation under Section 24 of the Crimes Ordinance. By threatening borrowers, lenders intend to coerce them to repay their loans, which they are not legally bound to do, as loans are charged with excessive interest, and loan documents are not provided to the borrower, rendering the loans unenforceable. These actions may also constitute common law harassment, in the form of excessive phone calls, text messages, threats and public humiliation, which adversely affects victims emotions and mental well-being.
	      * Violation of the MLO, Crimes Ordinance
      * Violation of Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
      * Violation of Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
      * May constitute common law harassment
	Several borrowers of licensed money lenders have reported receiving unmarked demand letters asking for repayment of debt without any mention of a company name or liability status.  Normally, such letters include the name of a contact number and in many occasions, merely a phone number. 
	      * Violation of the Companies (Disclosure of Company Name and Liability Status) Regulation 
	Unlicensed online money lenders utilize hundreds of accounts held at Stored Value Facilities (SVF Operators), traditional banks, and online banks to lend money and collect loan proceeds. These online money lenders operate without any physical presence (i.e. office space), and from our observations, often control over 20 different financial accounts respectively. 


They lend money with excessive interest rates and are able to structure those financial transactions in a way that avoids detection. They also share borrowers’ information without consent and engage in intimidation and other harassing behaviours.


	      * Violation of the Licensing Conditions, MLO, and MLR
      * Criminal intimidation and similar activities
      * Violations of the PDPO
	Hong Kong companies owning illicit lenders overseas


Some Hong Kong companies are beneficial owners of money lending entities overseas which are engaged not only in predatory and illegal money lending operations, but also fraud, illegal recruitment, human trafficking, debt bondage, violations of data privacy laws, and money laundering. In many instances, these money lenders are involved in aggressive and illicit debt collections by resorting to retaliatory litigation and attempting to have government and law enforcement institutions act as debt collectors for illicit debts. This raises concerns about the compliance of these Hong Kong companies with AML/CTF standards, and raises suspicion of involvement in money laundering schemes. 
	      * Potential violations of the Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance (given that underlying offences overseas are predicate offences in Hong Kong).
	Many money lenders attempt to contract out of legal obligations even in instances where court judgments are decided against them. For example, a loan agreement will provide “...regardless of decisions of the Court, the interest rate will remain the same as set out in this Agreement…”.
	      * Attempts to perverse the course of justice
	Many lenders openly violate the Money Lenders Ordinance by including provisions within the loan agreement to increase the interest rate in the event of a default. Indeed, a review of accessible loan agreements show that the majority of loan agreements include provisions that unlawfully (i) increase the effective interest rate upon default; and (ii) charge excessive and unjustifiable late fees that increase the interest rate upon default.
	      * Violation of the Money Lenders Ordinance 
	Money Lenders and their agents charge and threaten to charge late fees, collection fees, and other often arbitrary fees, that effectively results in the interest rate exceeding 60% per annum.
	      * Violation of the Money Lenders Ordinance
	There exists a centralised network of debt collection companies that work closely with money lenders to collect money on dubious loans. These collectors conduct activities such as:


(i) sending demand letters and communication documents without their company name or liability status;
(ii) engaging in harassing phone calls by collection staff and robo dials;
(iii) harassing alleged debtors by trespassing into residential premises, posting personal information in public locations, loitering to cause harm or worry, and making threats of arrest and jail time if the borrowers don't repay their debts.


These collection techniques violate a multitude of laws, yet the money lenders are rarely held responsible because they will claim they have no knowledge of the collectors activities despite the collectors acting as an agent for them.


	      * Violation of the Licensing Conditions, MLO, and MLR
      * Violations of the PDPO
      * Vicarious and/or principal-agent liability of money lenders in the acts of the collection companies (and/or the centralized network of collection companies)
	Money lenders have regularly taken photos of borrowers as collateral for loans and threatened to publicly disclose photographs. This personal data is collected for an unlawful purpose as taking photographs as security for a loan is illegal under Section 12(c) of the MLR. As such this behaviour also violates the Data Protection Principles (DPP1) of the PDPO.


Furthermore, money lenders will often require borrowers to disclose their Facebook profiles to the money lender. Money lenders will then collect photographs of borrowers and their friends by downloading and collecting photos from Facebook. After downloading and collecting these photos, money lenders will threaten and actually publish the photos of alleged borrowers to threaten, embarrass, and blackmail them into making payments.


When publishing these photos the money lenders will usually include captions such as “if you do not pay you will go to jail” or “wanted for fraud/estafa” in an attempt to coerce alleged debtors and their family or friends into making payments.
	      * Violation of the Licensing Conditions
      * Violation of the Crime Ordinance
      * Violation of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance,  (Data Protection Principles) and MLO 
	There exist a large number of money lending syndicates that withhold passports of borrowers as collateral for loans. These lenders usually operate out of residential addresses, boarding houses, or MTR stations. Indeed, members of the public can observe the illicit handling of passports in exchange for money in population transaction locations such as Jordan MTR station, Aberdeen MTR station, Cheung Chau, and common meeting points in Wanchai, Admiralty, and Central. In addition to withholding passports these syndicates commonly charge interest rates exceeding 10% per month and will threaten, harass, and even become physically aggressive against alleged borrowers - especially when borrowers consider reporting the illicit lending operations to the authorities.
	      * Violation of the Money Lenders Ordinance and  Crimes Ordinance
      * Perversion of the course of public justice
	Money lenders who are subject to scrutiny often avoid serious investigations and escape from liability by simply creating new entities, owned and directed by the same people, in order to execute an analogous scam with a different corporate entity and often a new address outside of the police district of their previous corporate entity.

After creating the new corporate entity, it is typical that the previous corporate entity will share all of the financial accounts, personal data, and contract information with the new entity despite not having permission or legitimate business reasons to do so.
	

	Money lenders will regularly submit incomplete and inaccurate information in their Application for a Money Lenders License and its Renewal. For example, a large number of corporate money lenders do not disclose all of the bank accounts they use as required by  Form 5. As a result, many money lenders are able to collect excessive interest and tainted financial proceeds using accounts which are unknown to law enforcement authorities.


	      * General fraud, perjury or misrepresentation because they are submitting false information to the police?
      * Violation of the Licensing Conditions, MLO, and MLR
	Money lenders impose excessive interest rates by granting loans with mandatory ‘processing’ fees. Such fees, according to Section 2 of the MLO, shall constitute interest as they are imposed in excess of the principal. Processing fees are commonly deducted from the initial loan, but included in overall repayment calculations. When interest rate is calculated accounting for these deductions, interest rates often far exceed the limit of 60% according to Section 24(1) of the MLO. The lenders thus commit an indictable offence and loans are unenforceable according to Section 24(2). Such processing fees are very common for loans which are dispersed in cash as well as electronic transfer. In many instances, the amount received by the borrower is significantly less than the principal loan amount listed on the loan agreement.


	      * Violations of the Money Lenders Ordinance 
	Several money lenders in Hong Kong act in concert with money lenders, employment agencies and other overseas entities in an effort to exploit migrant workers and facilitate large scale debt bondage schemes. 


Money lenders in origin countries of migrant workers often grant loans to finance prohibited and excessive recruitment fees imposed by employment agencies, medical clinics and training centers. These overseas lenders often act in concert with and are in many instances owned by the same persons/entities as the medical clinics, employment agencies and training centers. In addition, these loans often carry excessive interest rates, exceeding 60% per annum. As a result, migrant workers are forced into debt even before departing their countries of origin. 


Once they arrive in Hong Kong, the overseas money lenders then assign these loans to the Hong Kong money lender, which then collects the loan from migrant workers in Hong Kong by way of aggressive debt collection practices such as harassment and intimidation. This forces borrowers to pledge substantial portions of their monthly salaries and as a result, their labour, to repaying illegal loans – thereby forcing them into a position of debt bondage. 


It is also worth noting that the Hong Kong money lenders and overseas money lenders are often owned/controlled by the same persons/entities. It is clear that there is collusion between the Hong Kong and overseas money lenders, and the transactions and ‘assignment’ of loans is structured in this manner deliberately to perpetuate large scale debt bondage, exploit migrant workers, and circumvent the requirements of the Money Lenders Ordinance, which prohibits the charging of excessive interest by Hong Kong licensed money lenders. 
	      * Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance (knowingly dealing in the proceeds of a crime by collection of loans carrying excessive interest, which is a predicate offence, and other predicate offences such as fraud, theft, etc.)
	Many money lenders have been forcing borrowers to reconstruct existing loans in an attempt to increase the interest rate being charged and to circumvent the requirements under the Money Lenders Ordinance. In one instance, a series of loan reconstructions resulted in an annual interest rate of 1371% being charged. 


Illustration of the scheme: The initial loan would usually impose an interest rate below 48% per annum. However, after a few repayments, the borrower would be forced to visit the money lender’s office to ‘reconstruct’ the loan. The money lender would then coerce the borrower to sign a new loan agreement with the same loan principal, interest rate and number of installments as the original loan, despite the fact that the borrower receives no money on the day of the reconstruction and the fact that several repayments have already been made. The loan agreement then makes it seem like a new loan with a legal interest rate is granted, when such is not the case. If the interest rate is calculated with the unpaid balance of the original loan as the principal, the interest rate actually exceeds 60% per annum, which is a violation of the Money Lenders Ordinance. It is clear that by coercing borrowers into reconstructing the loans, money lenders are circumventing the requirements of the Money Lenders Ordinance while also falsifying loan documents and potentially internal accounting records (as the loan amount is only disbursed once to borrowers, and not multiple times as stated in subsequent loan agreements). 
	      * Violation of the Money Lenders Ordinance, Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
      * Potential violations of the Theft Ordinance by engaging in false accounting (by falsely claiming more loan disbursements than are actually made) 
	To exploit an apparent law enforcement loophole and avoid liability under the Trade Descriptions Ordinance a significant number of electronics retailers who engage in deceptive advertising and trade practices will apply to be a licensed money lender. In doing so, the entity becomes a license money lender and regardless of their business activities the money lenders know that they will not be held liable for potential violations of the Trade Descriptions Ordinance because the CE&D has a policy of not investigating any entity with a money lenders license.
	

	The vast majority of money lenders refuse to provide copies of loan agreements despite receiving numerous written requests to provide such.
	

	Unlicensed Philippines and Indonesian banks will open savings accounts for migrant workers in Hong Kong in violation of the Banking Ordinance but will late claim that they simply helped open up an overseas bank account.
	

	Money lenders registering offices at TCSPs
	

	Harassing and threatening overseas relatives
	

	

________________


(ii) Specific events/activities indicative of insufficient enforcement of money lenders


Summary of Event/Activity
	Result 
	On at least two separate occasions it was reported by complainants that HKPF said a cross border money laundering syndicate was committing no crime in Hong Kong because although the loan carries excessive interest it was granted overseas.

This statement was made despite the fact that numerous banks, money service operators, and financial companies have already closed accounts and blocked transactions related to the syndicate.
	The apparent lack of knowledge on the extraterritorial applicability of the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance has caused significant delays and hindrances in numerous money laundering schemes whereby money lending syndicates use Hong Kong to send, receive, and handle proceeds from indictable offenses, such as excessive interest, committed in local and overseas money lending transactions.
	HKPF were reluctant to inquire about multiple online money lenders targeting Hong Kong residents and implied that no investigation could be launched because it was not possible to prove that perpetrators were in Hong Kong. This reluctance continued despite the fact that tens of thousands of demand letters for excessive interest loans were being sent via local postal mail (without a return address) and over 10 financial institutions in Hong Kong began blocking the transactions related to this syndicate.
	As a result, the syndicate was able to continue its illicit lending operations and cause significant damage to thousands of Hong Kong residents and their employers. This activity continued until overseas law enforcement took action in 2021.
	Mr. U called at least one domestic helper and reportedly informed this domestic helper that she must withdraw her complaint against Rich Credit Finance Limited.


In the words of the domestic helper:

“Mr. U of police department of Central called and he said to me to drop the case about to rich credit because rich credit is not illegal lender and I need to pay the rich. What happen the result to need help your agency..because still harassing to my employer using the private no.and also to my family.thank you.. My question  is this is true what Mr.U said to me?”
	As a result, the domestic helper became extremely discouraged and frustrated that her complaint was not being taken seriously. Furthermore, it appears as though the domestic helper’s access to justice was prejudiced because the police are acting to close complaints against Rich Credit Finance Limited with unreasonable haste and without conducting a thorough investigation.

Furthermore, it seems as though a premature determination on the legality of Rich Credit Finance Limited was made without reviewing or appropriately considering the Money Lenders Ordinance, Money Lenders Regulations, and Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders. 

Judging by the haste in which this conclusion was made and considering similar actions taken by authorities it appears as though there is an incorrect consensus within law enforcement agencies that if a money lender has a license then they are legal and there is no need to conduct an investigation.
	A police officer investigating a complaint from a domestic helper against Rich Credit Finance Limited used demeaning, discouraging, and apparently unsupported language that left the domestic helper likely questioning the actual intentions and purpose of the police.

As reported by the domestic helper the police officer said:

“all the complaints are make up stories ... Because he really make it clear to me..YOU SIGNED THAT UNDER TAKING YOU ARE BOUND TO AGREE WHAT IS WRITTEN IN THERE”
	As a result of the verbal representations of the police officer and apparent lack of interest to investigate the actual truth left the domestic helper extremely discouraged and seemingly questioning the intelligence of the police officer in charge.

Furthermore, the domestic helper was inappropriately told by the police officer that if a document is signed it must be paid. However, basic analysis would show that any signed document must comply with the Money Lenders Ordinance and other provisions in order to be enforceable.

Instead of applying a methodical and analytical approach to determine if the circumstances and force of the agreement is is incompliance with the law, the police office simply told the domestic helper it must be paid and convinced the domestic worker to request no further police assistance.
	At least one police officer received a report of violations of licensing conditions , among other things, and told the complainant that the police can not investigate privacy concerns and that privacy concerns must be reported to the PDPO.
	As a result, it appears as though suspected violations of licensing conditions will not be investigated by the HKPF and instead the complaint will be forwarded to the PCPD which does not have in place a procedure to object to a money lenders license. Furthermore, at the conclusion of the PCPD investigation flowchart, the case will likely be forwarded back to the HKPF for follow-up thus making the referral to the PCPD seemingly an inefficient use of time and government resources if the case will simply get forwarded back to the HKPF after months or years.

Furthermore, in this situation, the unauthorized publication of personal photos and personal information includes threats of “estafa/fraud” cases if the alleged debtor did not pay. Such behavior constitutes significant criminal activity under the Crimes Ordinance because it is unlawful for someone to threaten someone else with a criminal case in order to coerce them into taking action. Unfortunately, the police seemed content that money lenders are allowed to threaten criminal cases against borrowers as a valid means of collection.
	At least 8 other incidents where domestic helpers have expressly complained that the HKPF are not taking complaints against money lenders seriously and that the HKPF appear to have a lack of understanding or lack of interest in the Money Lenders Ordinance, Money Lenders Regulations, and Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders. Many incidents include: (i) HKPF unwilling to arrange an interpreter for domestic helpers; (ii) HKPF unwilling to arrange a statement on weekends; (iii) police not reviewing or otherwise ignoring written submissions of domestic helpers; (iv) HKPF forwarding the complaints to other departments.
	As a result, it is estimated that at least 13 illicit lenders have been able to continue operating in non-compliance with the law dealing in over 20,000,000 HKD in suspected crime proceeds for significant and repetitive violations of the law such as indictable offenses including excessive interest, criminal intimidation, unlicensed banking, blackmail, and other unlawful activities.
	Despite multiple arrests and thousands of victims, it appears as though no material objection was filed by the HKPF or CR in relation to the application for license renewed filed by Niaga Finance Company Limited.

Similarly, the HKPF has taken no material action to object to license applications of other money lenders engaging in similar schemes.
	As a result, these lending companies have been given significant free reign to continue engaging in illicit schemes which possibly results in more prohibited activities and more victims.
	In multiple civil cases judges in Hong Kong SAR have come to conclusions that certain money lenders engaged in illicit activity.

Unfortunately, the HKPF has been reluctant to launch investigations based on these conclusions. Indeed, it has been reported that the HKPF will make statements to the effect that no action can be taken unless a victim files a report.
	By not launching an inquiry based on activities accepted as true within judicial proceedings the HKPF are significantly limiting their ability to conduct intelligence and efficient law enforcement activities to ensure money lenders comply with the law.
	Institutional bias by officials (Small Claims Tribunal, Police, Companies Registry, Etc)


An adjudicator at the Small Claims Tribunal made a remark to the effect that the fact that money lenders charge excessive interest is irrelevant, and borrowers must still pay their loans. This is despite the fact that the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163) renders loan agreements entirely unenforceable in the event that excessive interest is charged. In fact, the Hong Kong Court of First Instance has opined that the effect of the excessive interest provision is to render entire loan agreements unenforceable, and it does not give rise to any obligation for a borrower to repay any amount under the loan agreement. See Skyline Credit Ltd v Leung Hing Chung [2019] HKCFI 169 at paragraphs 128 and 129. The adjudicator followed this remark by saying that “Filipino migrant domestic workers take out too many loans.” 


In several instances, adjudicators at the Small Claims Tribunal have denied applications for representation brought by migrant domestic workers seeking to file claims against money lenders. This is despite the adjudicators being informed that migrant domestic worker claimants usually only have one day off per week which is fixed by their employers (in most instances to a Saturday or Sunday), and as a result, they are unable to personally attend any hearings which take place on weekdays. 
	As a result, victims of illicit and aggressive debt collectors have been unable to seek redress through criminal or civil mechanisms, as institutional barriers and biases prevent officials from taking complaints seriously and seemingly applying the laws incorrectly. 
	Police were unable to recognize that threats of jail and sham criminal cases against an alleged borrower could be a crime.

Nanette, LM 460 / 21
	Money lenders and collectors appear to be aware that the HKPF is generally not able to recognize criminal intimidation and blackmail as an illicit collection technique, thus money lenders and collectors continue to engage in such unscrupulous activities.
	The HKPF and CR have been hesitant to include any significant calls to action or provide encouragement for witnesses to come forward and file complaints.

For example, in a recent case the HKPF seized a large number of passports from money lenders. Unfortunately, the HKPF did not issue any press release or publish any contact information that victims and witnesses could use to provide information about the case.
	By not conducting a press conference or providing easily accessible contact information there is an unnecessarily limited number of individuals who could serve as witnesses and prosecution witnesses which makes the job of the HKPF and CR more difficult and less efficient.

Other law enforcement agencies, such as the Customs & Excise Department regularly include information and contact details for crime reporting in their own press releases and this information is usually published in newspapers and online media as well.
	The FTSB, CR, HKPF, PCPD, and Labour Department routinely forward cases to each other which causes confusion and prevents there from being a clear reporting mechanism.

For example, it has been documented that when a domestic worker reports that an employment agency without a money lending license is engaged in a money lending business, the HKPF will not investigate the case for unlicensed lending and will instead forward the case to the Labour Department.

Moreover, a significant number of witnesses reported suspected illegal lending to the FTSB. The FTSP forwarded the concerns to the CR. The CR then stated they can not investigate and that the appropriate department is the HKPF. After receiving the complaint and follow-up details the HKPF forwarded the case to the PCPD and did not investigate the suspected licensing condition violations.
	The lack of a sector specific regulator makes it extremely difficult and cumbersome for a witness to make a report that is actually investigated.
	CE&D regularly receives complaints concerning combination money lenders and electronics retailers. These suspect entities usually sell electronic devices, such as cell phones, by first granting the customer a loan and then requiring the customer use all or some of the loan proceeds to purchase an electronic device. Even though these entities use materially false and misleading information in their advertising the CE&D forwards the case to the HKPF despite the fact that money lenders are not exempt products or persons as stated in the Trade Descriptions Ordinance.

In these cases, the HKPF will usually not investigate the case because the suspect entities represent that they are not lending money but simply providing products to be paid for on an installment basis. Despite this, it seems as though the HKPF has not forwarded the case back to the CE&D and limited if any follow-up action has occurred.
	There are at least four major syndicates that employ the strategy of becoming a licensed money lender in order to avoid scrutiny for suspected violations of the Trade Descriptions Ordinance. The lack of law enforcement inquiries into these syndicates has allowed them to grow significantly and operate over thirty stores that engage in these illicit practices.
	Despite there being significant evidence of unlawful activity in publicly accessible profiles, pages, and groups on social media law enforcement authorities are overly reluctant to review this information.

For example, throughout 2019 and 2020, a large number of money lenders would post photos of borrowers on various Facebook pages in order to harass these borrowers into making payments on alleged debts. A cursory review of these photos would show that the background of the photo matched the physical description and layout of the money lender’s office in Hong Kong. Thus, it was clear that the money lender was taking photos of borrowers from within their office. Unfortunately, despite numerous reports of this, law enforcement took no material action and various Facebook pages still exist online showing photos of borrowers being taken from within money lender offices which is a direct violation of the Money Lenders Regulations.


Moreover, there exist a large number of Facebook profiles, pages, and groups that engage in doxxing, unlicensed lending, withholding passports, charging excessing commission, and aggressive collection activities. Reviewing the names, photos, and information on these Facebook URLs will reveal the particulars of the money lenders behind the Facebook URLs and link the money lenders to the illicit online behavior. Unfortunately, it has been reported that the HKPF is not considering this publicly accessible information and will not start an investigation despite the illicit activity being easily visible to anyone with a web browser.
	Money lenders feel as though they are immune from responsibility for their online activities. As a result, very serious crimes occur online and are committed by licensed and unlicensed money lenders who are not subject to law enforcement inquiry for their egregious online activities.
	Many law enforcement officers have been reported to make blanket statements that any sign document must be followed. These statements by law enforcement have been reported even when the document in question is an illegal agreement pursuant to the money lenders and in instances where the loan carries excessive interest.

Furthermore, the HKPF appears unaware of the requirements for a valid civil contract. Indeed, in many instances where borrowers, co-borrowers, or references were coerced to sign an agreement the HKPF has stated that the coercion doesn’t matter and the signed agreement must be followed. This erroneous advice has apparently been given to numerous domestic workers who were forced to sign various documents under threat of termination because the money lender and its collectors would tell these domestic workers if they did not sign they would harass the domestic worker’s employer until they were terminated.

Similar coercion has been reported that involves physical threats, false promises, fraud, and other actions of the money lender that would certainly void the agreement - yet law enforcement only conducts a cursory check to see if the document is signed and does not inquire about the circumstances and threats.
	As a result, many borrowers are lead to believe that an illegal agreement must be paid and in situations where there is excessive interest, it is entirely possible that  statements of law enforcement officers have facilitate money laundering by encouraging victims to make payments on excessive interest loans which results in the money lender receiving proceeds of an indictable offense.
	On multiple occasions reports have been submitted to the HKPF concerning unlicensed savings accounts being operated by money lenders. The HKPF has referred these complaints to the HKMA but the HKMA can not take any action because the HKMA can only investigate licensed banks and licensing savings products. It appears as though some members of the HKPF do not know that the HKPF is responsible for investigating unlicensed banking activities.
	For many years a significant number of money lenders in Hong Kong have offered unlicensed savings accounts to loan customers. These savings accounts, formally known as deposit taking accounts, are operated without a license from the HKMA and are in violation of the Banking Ordinance, yet the prevalence of these unlicensed deposit taking accounts continues to increase.
	There is insufficient scrutiny concerning the registration of appointed third party money lenders.
	A large number of money lenders have appointed third parties in arrangements that raise serious suspicion and facilitate illicit activities.

For example, a number of money lenders have granted employment agencies the power to grant loans - despite the fact that the Employment Ordinance specifically prohibits employment agencies from being involved in a money lending business.
	Despite receiving hundreds of complaints and significant reports of erroneous money lending activities, the HKPF and CR have rarely objected to the granting or renewal of money lending licenses.

Moreover, many law enforcement officers have reportedly told complainants that if a money lender has a license then it must be following the law.
	Many money lenders will tell investigating officials, victims, and others that they have a license from the licensing court as an attempt to convince others that their business and loans are legal.

This backwards logic has resulted in the erroneous belief from certain law enforcement officers that a licensed money lender can not be investigated because they must be following the law otherwise a license would not be granted.
	slow action leading to lack of availability of witnesses
	

	Police often give incorrect civil advise to borrowers, primarily suggesting they “just pay” because loans are loans and debt always must be repaid
	

	Online Crime Report form unable to handle syndicates operating at multiple addresses
	

	police unwilling to obtain records from third parties like Softmedia, websites, or telecom companies
	

	the "you must pay your loan" guideline is used by police to  tell people they must pay illegal loans
	

	CR is the only government department that hosts a list of licensed entities but claims it had no investigation power
	

	police not indicating company name or reference number in emails