Agency - Lender Quick Reference Table

Reason For Complaint
(Mga dahilan para sa reklamo)
	Source Of Law
(Pinagmumulan ng Batas)
	Check
(tsekan)
	Including processing, deposit, application, or other fees did the lender charge an interest rate of over 60% per annum?

(Kasama ang pagproseso, deposito, aplikasyon, o iba pang bayarin, Naningil ba ang nagpapahiram ng interes na may rate na higit pa sa 60% ka da taon?)
	Money Lenders Ordinance
	

	Did the lender require or offer unlicensed “savings” / “deposit taking account”?


(Kinailangan o nag-alok ba ang nagpapahiram ng isang hindi lisensyadong "savings" / "deposit-taking account"?)
	Banking Ordinance
	

	Did the lender fail or refuse to provide a copy of the loan agreement?


(Nabigo o tumanggi ba ang nagpapahiram na magbigay ng kopya ng loan agreement?)
	Money Lenders Ordinance
	

	Did the lender require you to send money via a remittance company, place money within a mastercard, or use part of the loan proceeds to buy electronics or other products/services?


(Kinailangan ka ba ng nagpapahiram na magpadala ka ng pera sa pamamagitan ng remmitance na kumpanya, o maglagay ng pera sa isang mastercard, o gamitin ang bahagi ng na nakalikom na utang upang bumili ng  electronics o iba pang mga produkto/serbisyo?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
Trade Descriptions Ordinance
	

	Did the lender require a personal picture as security for the loan?


(Kinailangan ba ng nagpapahiram ang isang personal na larawan bilang seguridad sa utang?)
	Money Lenders Regulations
	

	Did the lender withhold your passport or HKID as security for the loan?


(Kinumpiska at pinagkait ba ang iyong passport o HKID bilang seguridad sa utang?)
	Money Lenders Regulations
	

	Did the money lender accept reference information without written authorization from the reference?


(Tinanggap ba ng nagpapahiram ang impormasyon ng reference nang walang nakasulat na pahintulot mula sa reference?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
	

	Did the lender disclose your personal information to third parties (employer, friends, family, or publicly on social media)?


(Inihayag ba ng nagpapahiram ang iyong personal na impormasyon sa mga third party (halimbawa sa mga amo, kaibigan, pamilya, o publikong nilagay sa social media?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
	

	Did the lender engage in repetitive behavior that could constitute harassment?
(Ang nagpapahiram ba ay mag ugali na paulit-ulit na maaaring maging sanhi ng harassment?)
	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
	

	Did the lender share an office with a remittance company?


(Ang nagpapahiram ba ay nakikibahagi ng opisina kasama ang isang remittance na kumpanya?)
	Money Service Operators Licensing Guide
	

	Did the lender fail to provide a summary of the Money Lenders Ordinance?


(Nabigo ba ang nagpapahiram na magbigay ng buod ng Money Lenders Ordinance?)
	Money Lenders Regulations
	

	Other


(Iba pa)
	

	

	

Potential Actions
Actions
	Check
(tsekan)
	Send a demand letter to the lender requesting a copy of the loan agreement and payment records.
	

	Send a Data Access Request under Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance and request personal data
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to cease and desist calling all references who have not furnished written authorization to be a reference.
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to provide a refund of all processing and savings fees.
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to cease harassing behavior such as house visits and repetitive calls.
	

	Send a demand letter to the lender asking them to delete any photos taken as security for the loan.
	

	Send a demand letter requesting compensation for harassment. See https://www.tannerdewitt.com/court-confirms-tort-harassment-hong-kong/ 
	

	File small claims suit
	

	Conduct additional research
	

	
Narrative (Interview) Questions
Formal Police Reports / Civil Claims


1. Name?
2. Age?
3. Marital status?
4. Education level?
5. Amount of time in Hong Kong?
6. When did Client first learn about the lender?
7. How did the Client first learn about the lender (facebook ad, friend, flyer, advertisement, etc)?
8. Who did the Client speak to first at the lender (name of staff, phone number, business card, etc)?
9. Why did the Client apply for the loan?
10. Where did the Client apply for the loan?
11. When did the Client apply for the loan?
12. What information did the Client provide to the lender?
13. What information did the lender give or explain to the Client?
14. Elaborate on nominal loan principal, processing fees, savings fees and any supporting evidence (receipts, conversations)?
15. See below police reports for other potential questions and information to include
16. Ask:
   1. Processing fees
   2. Savings accounts
   3. Address
   4. Was license visible in the office
   5. Name of staff
   6. Description (body build, glasses, hair color, eye color)
17. Try to write questions that will find violations of MLO, MLR, and/or licensing conditions


These questions serve as a backbone to a police report. Example questions / reports:


* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A6A3tUVfsfbGDvO8zQaXYG4Mp0YMcyn_DGAUKRg2S78/edit 




Example Police Reports


* Sample HKPF statement against Rich Credit for reference (authorized for disclosure).
* Sample HKPF statement
* More detailed sample statement on HKPF statement form
* More sample or redacted HKPF, EAA, or other statement can be made available