Global Migration Legal Clinic
The University of Hong Kong
K.K. Leung Room 1313
Pok Fu Lam Road, Hong Kong
E-mail: gmlc.hku@gmail.com
28 June 2020
To Whom It May Concern:
RE: Case Support For Ms. Chona Abanilla
This letter is to confirm that Ms. Chona Abanilla sought advice today from the Global Migration Legal Clinic within
the Faculty of Law at The University of Hong Kong. Our clinic investigates illegal agencies and lenders, reports illicit
activities to law enforcement, and assists victims to file complaints and seek the appropriate remedies.
It has come to our attention that Ms. Abanilla is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending company,
Prosperity and Success Lending Investor Corporation (“Prosperity”). In this case, Prosperity has colluded with an
employment agency in the Philippines to coerce Ms. Abanilla into taking a loan carrying excessive interest to fund
illegal agency fees. Additionally, Prosperity has failed to produce a valid loan agreement which can prove obligations
on the part of Ms. Abanilla. Descriptions of further suspected violations are attached.
As such, we have assisted Ms. Abanilla and other victims of this scheme to file official complaints as is their legal
right, and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities to bring the perpetrators to justice. We have
advised Ms. Abanilla not to pay Prosperity unless (1) Prosperity provides the legal documents required by law, and (2)
the relevant government authorities have completed their investigations on Prosperity. Please feel assured that Ms.
Abanilla is not acting illegally by refusing to make these payments, and you should not feel pressured by any entity
which forces her to pay.
While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of Prosperity
is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt. This is a likely attempt to get the workers
fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal complaints with authorities. We have
already informed Prosperity to cease and desist from making threats, and that any correspondence with Ms. Abanilla
should use our office address.
We ask you to fully support Ms. Abanilla as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is granted under
law. This case will not affect the work of Ms. Abanilla, nor will there be financial costs or time out of usual work
hours. By continuing to be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal behavior - which is sadly all
too common in Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.
Thank you for all your support. We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your family. If I can
be of any further assistance, please feel free to email us at gmlc.hku@gmail.com.
Sincerely,
Global Migration Legal Clinic
The University of Hong Kong
ATTACHMENT
Suspected Violations of Prosperity and Success Lending Investor Corporation
Ordinance, Act, Statute,
Law, or Relevant Regulation
Explanation of activity
Money Lenders Ordinance
(Cap. 163)
The loans from Prosperity carry an interest rate exceeding the limit of
60% per annum which is an indictable offence in Hong Kong.
Organized and Serious Crimes
Ordinance
(Cap. 455)
Entities in Hong Kong seeking to collect or remit the loan monies are
dealing or attempting to deal with proceeds of an indictable offence
which constitutes money laundering.
Republic Act No. 3765 - Truth
in Lending Act
Prosperity refuses to provide borrowers with a Disclosure Statement and
Loan Agreement as required by law.
Republic Act No. 10173 –
Data Privacy Act of 2012
The personal information of borrowers have been disclosed to third
parties without authorization including to employment agencies.
Prosperity has also been documented to post personal details of its
borrowers online without permission.
Republic Act No. 9194 Unlawful activities captured by the Act include “[f]elonies or offenses of
a similar nature that are punishable under the penal laws of other
countries.” As such, the collection of loan proceeds by Prosperity
constitutes money laundering because the activities of Prosperity
constitute an indictable (felony) offense under Hong Kong’s Money
Lenders Ordinance.
Republic Act No. 10022 Acting in concert with employment agencies in the Philippines to grant
loans to prospective overseas foreign workers; granting loans at an
excessive loan interest rate. Prosperity has furthermore retained blank
checks from prospective borrowers as leverage or apparent blackmail.
Other practices which are unfair, abusive, or contrary to public interest:
1. Suspected criminal intimidation, including threats of taking legal action and disclosing personal
information;
2. Suspected blackmail;
3. Refusing to verify the accuracy of the loan agreements, payments, and any assignment or
appointment of Prosperity’s rights as lender.