Christine Monteron Mendoza
christinemendoza731@gmail.com
+852 6484 5238
RM 15B1, 15/F, 7-9 Hill Road
Sai Wan, Hong Kong

Via Postal Mail:
Securities and Exchange Commission
ATTN: Emilio Benito Aquino
Secretariat Building, PICC Complex, Roxas Boulevard, Pasay City, 1307, Philippines
Via Email: cgfd_md@sec.gov.ph 
	Via Postal Mail:
National Privacy Commission
ATTN: Raymund E. Liboro
5th Floor Delegation Building, PICC Complex, Roxas Boulevard Manila, Philippines
Via Email: complaints@privacy.gov.ph 
	Via Postal Mail
Anti-Money Laundering Council
ATTN: Benjamin Diokno 
5/F EDPC Building Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex Mabini corner Vito Cruz Streets, Malate Manila, Philippines
Via Email: secretariat@amlc.gov.ph
	Via Postal Mail:
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
ATTN: Benjamin Diokno
A. Mabini St. cor. P. Ocampo St., Malate Manila, Philippines 1004
Via Email: bspmail@bsp.gov.ph 
	Via Post To:
Presidential Complaint Center
Bahay Ugnayan, J.P. Laurel Street Malacañang, Manila, The Philippines
Via Email To: pcc@malacanang.gov.ph 
	Via Post To:
Presidential Anti Corruption Commission
Bahay Ugnayan, J.P. Laurel Street Malacañang, Manila, The Philippines
Via Email To: pacc.complaints@gmail.com 
	Copied Via Postal Mail:
Cash4U Financing Corporation
ATTN: Lin Chun-hung / Data Access Controller
3rd Flr Suite C D E Pacific Place Bldg 539 Arquisa St Ermita 072 Bgy 667 Manila, Philippines
Via Email: cash4umnl@yahoo.com.ph 
	Copied Via Posta
Cochingyan & Partners
Twelfth Floor, 139 Corporate Center, 139 Valero Street, Salcedo Village, Makati City 1227, Philippines
Via Email: viktorfumar@cochingyanlaw.com
	

Demand For Loan Documents And Request For Investigation Into Suspected Violations Of Republic Act No. 3765, Republic Act No. 10173, and Republic Act No. 10365


Mr. Lin Chun-Hung And Law Enforcement Agencies:


In accordance with the Republic Act No. 3765 and Republic Act No. 10173, I am formally requesting that Cash4U Financing Corporation (Cash4U) promptly disclose to me the following documents:


1. The loan disclosure statement containing at least the following particulars:

   1. the cash price or delivered price of the property or service to be acquired;
   2. the amounts, if any, to be credited as down payment and/or trade-in;
   3. the difference between the amounts set forth under clauses (1) and (2);
   4. the charges, individually itemized, which are paid or to be paid by such person in connection with the transaction but which are not incident to the extension of credit;
   5. the total amount to be financed;
   6. the finance charge expressed in terms of pesos and centavos; and
   7. the percentage that the finance bears to the total amount to be financed expressed as a simple annual rate on the outstanding unpaid balance of the obligation.

      2. A copy of the original loan agreement, undertaking, or any other contract signed within the premises of Cash4U’s office or between myself and Cash4U or between myself and any Cash4U affiliate;

      3. A copy of all personal data held by Cash4U;

      4. A response and confirmation to the following:

         1. Clarification over whether personal information pertaining to him or her shall be, are being or have been processed;
         2. Be furnished the information indicated hereunder before the entry of his or her personal information into the processing system of the personal information controller, or at the next practical opportunity:

            1. Description of the personal information to be entered into the system;
            2. Purposes for which they are being or are to be processed;
            3. Scope and method of the personal information processing;
            4. The recipients or classes of recipients to whom they are or may be disclosed;
            5. Methods utilized for automated access, if the same is allowed by the data subject, and the extent to which such access is authorized;
            6. The identity and contact details of the personal information controller or its representative;
            7. The period for which the information will be stored; and
            8. The existence of their rights, i.e., to access, correction, as well as the right to lodge a complaint before the Commission.


            5. An opportunity to dispute any inaccurate information or inappropriate use of personal data;

            6. A copy of all electronically stored personal data, including but not limited to Excel spreadsheets or CSV files, in accordance with the Right to Data Portability;

            7. A copy of any authorization that Cash4U may have, giving it any rights or responsibilities to transfer or receive personal data to or from third parties such as Hong Kong company Niaga Finance Company Limited.


It is demanded that Cash4U and its President Chairman Mr. Lin Chun-Hung, within 5 business days, provide:


               1. A copy of the original loan agreement; and
               2. A copy of the disclosure statement;


The requested information may be provided to me via email at christinemendoza731@gmail.com or via mail to RM 15B1, 15/F, 7-9 Hill Road, Sai Wan, Hong Kong.


Sincerely Yours,


Christine Monteron Mendoza