P.O. Box 50499, Sai Ying Pun Post Office, Hong Kong
Email: info@jemhk.org
16 August 2020
To Whom It May Concern:
Re: Case Support For Ms. Monalesa Hasim
This letter is to confirm that Ms. Monalesa Hasim sought advice from Justice for Ethnic Minorities - Hong
Kong (“JEM-HK”). JEM-HK provides assistance to ethnic minorities, including foriegn domestic workers
throughout Hong Kong. In addition to providing assistance we collaborate with members of civil society to
investigate illegal employment agencies and illegal lending companies.
It has come to our attention that Ms. Hasim is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending company,
Cash4U Financing Corporation and its Hong Kong partner Niaga Finance Co. Ltd. (collectively "Cash4U").
In this case, Cash4U has colluded with an employment agency in the Philippines to coerce Ms.
Hasim into taking a loan carrying excessive interest to fund illegal agency fees. Additionally, Cash4U
has failed to produce a valid loan agreement which can prove obligations on the part of Ms. Hasim.
Descriptions of further suspected violations are attached.
As such, we have assisted Ms. Hasim and at least 80 other victims of this scheme to file official complaints
as is their legal right, and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities to bring the
perpetrators to justice. We have advised Ms. Hasim not to pay Cash4U unless (1) Cash4U provides
the legal documents required by law, and (2) the relevant government authorities have completed
their investigations on Cash4U. Please feel assured that Ms. Hasim is not acting illegally by refusing to
make these payments, and you should not feel pressured by any entity which forces her to pay. Indeed, it is
understood that authorities in both Hong Kong and the Philippines are actively investigating the illicit
activities of Cash4U.
While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of
Cash4U is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt. This is a likely attempt to
get the workers fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal complaints
with authorities. We have already informed Cash4U to cease and desist from further communications, and
that any correspondence with Ms. Hasim should use our office address.
We ask you to fully support Ms. Hasim as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is
granted under law. This case will not affect the work of Ms. Hasim, nor will there be financial costs or time
out of usual work hours. By continuing to be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal
behavior - which is sadly all too common in Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.
Thank you for all your support. We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your
family. If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free to email us at info@jemhk.org.
Sincerely,
Justice for Ethnic Minorities
List of Suspected Violations
Cash4U Financing Corporation and Niaga Finance Co. Ltd.
Legal Basis Explanation of activity
Money Lenders Ordinance
(Cap. 163)
The loans from Cash4U carry an interest rate exceeding the limit of 60%
per annum which is an indictable offence in Hong Kong.
Organized and Serious
Crimes Ordinance
(Cap. 455)
Entities in Hong Kong including Niaga Finance Co. Ltd., seeking to
collect or remit the loan monies are dealing or attempting to deal with
proceeds of an indictable offence which constitutes money laundering.
Personal Data (Privacy)
Ordinance (Cap. 486)
Niaga is disclosing personal information to third parties without
authorization. Niaga has also failed to respond to data access requests.
Republic Act No. 3765 - Truth
in Lending Act
Cash4U refuses to provide borrowers with a Disclosure Statement and
Loan Agreement as required by law.
Republic Act No. 10173 –
Data Privacy Act of 2012
The personal information of borrowers have been disclosed to third
parties without authorization, namely the alleged agent of Cash4U in
Hong Kong, Niaga Finance Co. Ltd.. Cash4U has also been
documented to post personal details of its borrowers online without
permission.
Republic Act No. 9194 Unlawful activities captured by the Act include “[f]elonies or offenses of a
similar nature that are punishable under the penal laws of other
countries.” As such, the collection of loan proceeds by Cash4U
constitutes money laundering because the activities of Cash4U
constitute an indictable (felony) offense under Hong Kong’s Money
Lenders Ordinance.
Republic Act No. 10022 Acting in concert with employment agencies in the Philippines to grant
loans to prospective overseas foreign workers; granting loans at an
excessive loan interest rate. Cash4U has furthermore retained blank
checks from prospective borrowers as leverage or apparent blackmail.
Republic Act No. 7394:
Consumer Act of the
Philippines
Cash4U fails to provide disclosure documents as required under the Act
and furthermore engages in deceptive and unconscionable sales practices
to induce borrowers into entering unfavourable transactions.
SEC Memorandum Circular No.
18 Series of 2019
Cash4U engages in unfair debt collection practices, including the use of
deceptive means and threats to take action which cannot legally be taken.
Other practices which are unfair, abusive, or contrary to public interest:
1. Suspected criminal intimidation;
2. Suspected blackmail;
3. Other threats, including false assertions of taking legal action and disclosing personal information;
4. Use of personal accounts and identities of staff in an apparent attempt to bypass anti-money
laundering measures put in place by remittance companies and other money service providers;
5. Refusing to verify the accuracy of the loan agreements, payments, and any assignment or
appointment of Cash4U’s rights as lender.