David Bishop
Faculty of Business and Economics
The University of Hong Kong
Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong
E-mail: DBishop@hku.hk
21 June 2020
To Whom It May Concern:
RE: Case Support For Ms. TEST TEST
This letter is to confirm that Ms. TEST TEST sought advice today from the Global Migration Legal Clinic within the
Faculty of Law at The University of Hong Kong. Our clinic investigates illegal agencies and lenders, reports illicit
activities to law enforcement, and assists victims to file complaints and seek the appropriate remedies.
It has come to our attention that Ms. TEST is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending company,
Prosperity and Success Lending Investor Corporation (“Prosperity”). In this case, Prosperity has colluded with an
employment agency in the Philippines to coerce Ms. TEST into taking a loan carrying excessive interest to fund
illegal agency fees. Additionally, Prosperity has failed to produce a valid loan agreement which can prove obligations
on the part of Ms. TEST. Descriptions of further suspected violations are attached.
As such, we have assisted Ms. TEST and other victims of this scheme to file official complaints as is their legal right,
and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities to bring the perpetrators to justice. We have advised
Ms. TEST not to pay Prosperity unless (1) Prosperity provides the legal documents required by law, and (2) the
relevant government authorities have completed their investigations on Prosperity. Please feel assured that Ms. TEST
is not acting illegally by refusing to make these payments, and you should not feel pressured by any entity which
forces her to pay.
While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of Prosperity
is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt. This is a likely attempt to get the workers
fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal complaints with authorities. Should
you receive demand letters for Ms. TEST, please ignore them entirely. We have already informed Prosperity to cease
and desist from sending demand letters, and that any correspondence with Ms. TEST should use our office address.
We ask you to fully support Ms. TEST as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is granted under
law. This case will not affect the work of Ms. TEST, nor will there be financial costs or time out of usual work hours.
By continuing to be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal behavior - which is sadly all too
common in Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.
Thank you for all your support. We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your family. If I can
be of any further assistance, please feel free to email me at DBiship@hku.hk.
Sincerely,
David Bishop
香港薄扶林道
香港大學
經濟及工商管理學院
David Bishop
電郵：DBishop@hku.hk
敬啓者：
Ms. TEST {Surname}}的支援方案
 本人謹代表香港大學法學院轄下的Global Migration Legal Clinic，特書此函，以確認
{Firstname}} TEST女士今天向本會尋求法律建議。本會專責調查非法放債人和代理機構，並會向執
法部門舉報違法活動，以及協助受害者作出投訴和尋求相應賠償。
 本會發現TEST女士受騙於一所疑似非法營運和不道德的貸款公司Prosperity and Success Lending
Investor Corporation（“ Prosperity”）。本案中，Prosperity與菲律賓的職業介紹所合謀，強迫TEST女
士申請附有違法交易費用和過高利率的貸款，用於支付非法的中介費。此外，Prosperity亦沒有提供
一份列明TEST女士義務和權益的有效貸款協議 。就其他涉嫌違規行為，詳情可見附件。
 有見及此，本會已經協助TEST女士和其他受害者，遵照其法律權利作出了正式申訴。同時，
本會正積極與執法部門進行溝通，務求將不法之徒繩之於法。本會已建議TEST女士拒絕付費予
Prosperity，除非：
 （1）Prosperity提供了法例規定所需的法律文件；及
 （2）有關政府當局已完成對Prosperity的調查。
 TEST女士拒絕付費的舉動並不會構成違法行為，閣下毋須擔心，您亦不應受壓於任何強迫她
付款的單位。
 儘管此案不應對閣下或 貴家庭構成任何影響，本會仍注意到Prosperity採用的一種常見策略是威
脅傭工要將其負債問題告知僱主。本會相信Prosperity作出此舉，很大可能是意圖促使傭工被解僱，
令他們不得不離開香港，因而沒有時間向有關當局作出正式投訴。倘若閣下收到寄予TEST女士的
Demand Letter，請完全無視它們。本會已經通知Prosperity要求他們中止此舉，制止他們繼續寄出
Demand Letter，亦已要求任何與TEST女士往來的信件都應寄至本會的辦公地址。
 本會祈求閣下能全力支持TEST女士，協助她與有關部門合作以得到其依法授予的權利保障。
本案將不會影響TEST女士的工作，亦不會產生任何財務責任或佔據日常工時，引致不必要的休假或
缺席 。本案所牽涉的違法借貸舉動於香港實屬非常普遍，唯有倚靠僱主的支持，方能有效杜絕此等
非法行為 。
 本會衷心感激閣下的體諒與支援，亦在此就所有此案對閣下和 貴家庭造成的不便致歉。如有任
何需要和協助，歡迎以電郵與本人聯絡。
David Bishop
附件：Prosperity and Success Lending Investor Corporation 涉嫌違法行為列表
二零二零年六月十四日
ATTACHMENT
Suspected Violations of Prosperity and Success Lending Investor Corporation
Ordinance, Act, Statute,
Law, or Relevant Regulation
Explanation of activity
Money Lenders Ordinance
(Cap. 163)
The loans from Prosperity carry an interest rate exceeding the limit of
60% per annum which is an indictable offence in Hong Kong.
Organized and Serious Crimes
Ordinance
(Cap. 455)
Entities in Hong Kong seeking to collect or remit the loan monies are
dealing or attempting to deal with proceeds of an indictable offence
which constitutes money laundering.
Republic Act No. 3765 - Truth
in Lending Act
Prosperity refuses to provide borrowers with a Disclosure Statement and
Loan Agreement as required by law.
Republic Act No. 10173 –
Data Privacy Act of 2012
The personal information of borrowers have been disclosed to third
parties without authorization including to employment agencies.
Prosperity has also been documented to post personal details of its
borrowers online without permission.
Republic Act No. 9194 Unlawful activities captured by the Act include “[f]elonies or offenses of
a similar nature that are punishable under the penal laws of other
countries.” As such, the collection of loan proceeds by Prosperity
constitutes money laundering because the activities of Prosperity
constitute an indictable (felony) offense under Hong Kong’s Money
Lenders Ordinance.
Republic Act No. 10022 Acting in concert with employment agencies in the Philippines to grant
loans to prospective overseas foreign workers; granting loans at an
excessive loan interest rate. Prosperity has furthermore retained blank
checks from prospective borrowers as leverage or apparent blackmail.
Other practices which are unfair, abusive, or contrary to public interest:
1. Suspected criminal intimidation, including threats of taking legal action and disclosing personal
information;
2. Suspected blackmail;
3. Refusing to verify the accuracy of the loan agreements, payments, and any assignment or
appointment of Prosperity’s rights as lender.
附件：Prosperity and Success Lending Investor Corporation 涉嫌違法行為列表
法律依據 解釋
《放債人條例》
（第163章）
Prosperity以超過年息百分之六十的實際利率貸出款項於香港屬
可公訴罪行。
《有組織及嚴重罪行條例》
（第455章）
任何在本港欲追討欠款的組織 均被介定在處理或嘗試處理從
可公訴罪行中獲取的得益，可構成洗錢罪行。
Republic Act No. 3765:
Truth in Lending Act
Prosperity未有依法向借貸人提供一份 Disclosure Statement及有
效的借貸協議書。
Republic Act No. 10173:
Data Privacy Act
Prosperity曾多次在不同場合，於未得到借貸人的授權下將其個
人資料披露予第三方，包括一懷疑合夥人或一個於本港共同管
理的組織。此舉直接違例。
Republic Act No. 9160:
Anti-Money Laundering Act
Prosperity以詐騙手段批出貸款，可屬非法洗錢活動。
Republic Act No. 9194 此法案所規管的非法行為涵蓋一些「具有相似性質及可觸犯其
他國家刑法的（嚴重）罪行」。因此，Prosperity收取借貸得益
的行為已可構成洗錢罪行及違反此法案，皆因其行為已構成香
港《放債人條例》下的可公訴罪行。
Republic Act No. 10022 Prosperity與菲律賓的職業介紹所合謀，強迫傭工申請附有違法
交易費用和過高利率的貸款，用於支付非法中介費。
其他不公平、具侮辱性或違背公眾利益的行為：
1. 涉嫌刑事恐嚇；
2. 涉嫌勒索；
3. 拒絕核實借貸協議和款項的準確性。