Global Migration Legal Clinic
The University of Hong Kong
K.K. Leung Room 1313
Pok Fu Lam Road, Hong Kong
E-mail: gmlc.hku@gmail.com
19 July 2020
To Whom It May Concern:
RE: Case Support For Ms. Catherine Dequina
This letter is to confirm that Ms. Catherine Dequina sought advice today from the Global Migration Legal
Clinic within the Faculty of Law at The University of Hong Kong. Our clinic investigates illegal agencies and
lenders, reports illicit activities to law enforcement, and assists victims to file complaints and seek the
appropriate remedies.
It has come to our attention that Ms. Dequina is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending
company, Prosperity and Success Lending Investor Corporation (“Prosperity”). In this case, Prosperity has
colluded with an employment agency in the Philippines to coerce Ms. Dequina into taking a loan
carrying excessive interest to fund illegal agency fees. Additionally, Prosperity has failed to produce a
valid loan agreement which can prove obligations on the part of Ms. Dequina. Descriptions of further
suspected violations are attached.
As such, we have assisted Ms. Dequina and other victims of this scheme to file official complaints as is
their legal right, and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities to bring the perpetrators to
justice. We have advised Ms. Dequina not to pay Prosperity unless: (1) Prosperity provides the legal
documents required by law, and (2) all relevant government authorities have completed their
investigations on Prosperity. Please feel assured that Ms. Dequina is not acting illegally by refusing to
make these payments, and you should not feel pressured by any entity which forces her to pay.
While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of
Prosperity is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt. This is a likely attempt
to get the workers fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal complaints
with authorities. We have already informed Prosperity to cease and desist from making threats and other
contact.
We ask you to fully support Ms. Dequina as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is
granted under law. This case will not affect the work of Ms. Dequina, nor will there be financial costs or time
out of usual work hours. All correspondence with Ms. Dequina will use our office address. By continuing to
be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal behavior - which is sadly all too common in
Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.
Thank you for all your support. We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your
family. If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free to email us at gmlc.hku@gmail.com.
Sincerely,
Global Migration Legal Clinic
The University of Hong Kong
List of Prosperity and Success Lending Investor Corporation’s Suspected Violations
Legal Basis Explanation
Money Lenders Ordinance
(Cap. 163)
The loans from Prosperity carry an interest rate exceeding the limit of 60%
per annum which is an indictable offence in Hong Kong.
Organized and Serious
Crimes Ordinance
(Cap. 455)
All persons and entities in Hong Kong seeking to collect or remit the loan
monies whether to Prosperity or to their representatives Danica and Yu-Fan
are dealing or attempting to deal with proceeds of an indictable offence
which may constitute money laundering.
Theft Ordinance (Cap. 210) Prosperity forcibly retains signed blank checks from borrowers which may
constitute blackmail, suppression of documents and theft. Prosperity
misleads victims using false interest rates and undisclosed terms to pay
transaction and interest charges which may constitute obtaining property by
deception.
Crimes Ordinance
(Cap. 200)
Prosperity’s retention of signed blank checks and threats to bounce them
are intended to alarm victims and force them to repay. This may constitute
criminal intimidation.
Republic Act No. 9474 -
Lending Company Regulation
Act
The interest rate charged by Prosperity is not as represented, being
significantly higher. Additionally, the Act requires compliance with the
Republic Act No. 3765, Republic Act 7394 (below) which is not satisfied.
Republic Act No. 3765 - Truth
in Lending Act
Prosperity refuses to provide borrowers with a Disclosure Statement and
Loan Agreement at the time of granting the loan as required by law.
Republic Act No. 10173 –
Data Privacy Act of 2012
The personal information of borrowers have been disclosed to third parties
without authorization. Prosperity has also been documented to post personal
details of its borrowers online without permission.
Republic Act No. 9160:
Anti-Money Laundering Act,
as amended by Republic Act
No. 9194
Unlawful activities captured by the Act include “[f]elonies or offenses of a
similar nature that are punishable under the penal laws of other countries.”
As such, the collection of loan proceeds by Prosperity constitutes money
laundering because the activities of Prosperity constitute an indictable
(felony) offense under Hong Kong’s Money Lenders Ordinance.
Republic Act No. 10022 Prosperity acts in concert with employment agencies in the Philippines to
grant loans and at excessive interest rates to prospective OFWs.
Republic Act No. 7394:
Consumer Act of the
Philippines
Prosperity fails to provide disclosure documents as required under the Act
and furthermore engages in deceptive and unconscionable sales practices
to induce borrowers into entering unfavourable transactions.
SEC Memorandum Circular
No. 18 Series of 2019
Prosperity engages in unfair debt collection practices, including the use of
deceptive means and threats to take action which cannot legally be taken.
Other practices which are unfair, abusive, or contrary to public interest:
1. Potential collusion and/or fraudulent practices with banks and attempts to take effective control over
personal bank accounts of victims;
2. False assertions of taking legal action and disclosing personal information;
3. Use of personal accounts and identities of staff in an apparent attempt to bypass anti-money laundering
measures put in place by remittance companies and other money service providers;
4. Refusing to verify the accuracy of the loan agreements and payments.