Via Email To: cgfd_md@sec.gov.ph


Dear Securities and Exchange Commission,


COMPLAINT AGAINST 123 FINANCE CORPORATION


This is a complaint against 123 Finance Corporation (“123”) for suspected violations of the following, for which the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) is duly authorized to act upon:
* Republic Act No. 9474, or the Lending Company Regulation Act of 2007 and its Implementing Rules and Regulations;
* Violation of Republic Act No. 8556, or the Financing Company Act of 1998 and its Implementing Rules and Regulations;
* Violation of Republic Act No. 3756, or the Truth in Lending Act.


Summary of Complaints
In summary, 123 is in the business of lending money to prospective overseas foreign workers (“OFW”) in the Philippines who have secured employment opportunities overseas. Employment agencies refer prospective OFWs to 123 to undertake loans to fund excessive and unnecessary placements in violation of law and impairment of choice. The illicit conduct of 123 includes but is not limited to the following:
1. 123 has failed to produce a loan agreement and/or a disclosure statement at the time of granting the loan and has yet to do so despite repeated requests in violation of the Truth in Lending Act (see Section 4 of the attached dossier);
2. 123 coerced me into signing blank checks to induce payment by raising threats of a B.P. 22 and/or estafa case in violation of the SEC Memorandum Circular No. 18, Series of 2019: Prohibition on Unfair Debt Collection Practices of Financing Companies and Lending Companies, and in potential swindling and/or estafa under the Revised Penal Code as amended (see Section 6 of the attached dossier);
3. 123 has failed to disclose its SEC Registration Number and Certificate of Authority to Operate a Financing/ Lending Company Number in its advertisements and online lending platforms and 123 has failed to advise me to study the terms and conditions in the disclosure statement before proceeding with the loan transaction as no disclosure statement has been provided at all in violation of the Truth in Lending Act and the SEC Memorandum Circular No.19, Series of 2019: Disclosure Requirements on Advertisements of Financing Companies and Lending Companies and Reporting of Online Lending Platforms (see Section 7 of the attached dossier);
4. 123 engages in unfair debt collection practices, including use of threats which cannot legally be taken, use of false representations or other deceptive means, and contacting persons other than those named as guarantors or co-makers without consent, in violation of SEC Memorandum Circular No.18, Series of 2019: Prohibition on Unfair Debt Collection Practices of Financing Companies and Lending Companies in addition to privacy law (see Sections 5, 6 & 8 of the attached dossier);
5. Further violations of other laws of the Philippines.
A dossier containing further information of the said violations as well as evidence are attached for your perusal with sample loan information and records of the suspected orchestrators of 123’s illicit conduct (see Appendices A and C of the attached dossier). Below I bring to your attention further pertinent issues relating to 123’s conduct.


Money Laundering and Cross-Border Crime
123 is suspected of engaging in a cross-border money laundering scheme exploiting migrant workers. As the issues of money laundering have been recognized by the SEC and in light of concerns raised by the Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”), I stress the money laundering and foreign law implications of the conduct of 123 (see Section 9 of the attached dossier).
123 and/or its affiliates are inciting payment of loan monies by instructing victims such as myself to remit money to 123 via remittance companies in Hong Kong. However the funds of 123 may constitute proceeds of an indictable offence under Hong Kong law, and the dealing of such funds may amount to money laundering liability. 123’s harassment pressures me to act in potential violations of Hong Kong law for which I could face legal consequences. 
The actual interest rate of my loan exceeds the 60% per annum as allowable under section 24(1) of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163) under the method of calculation adopted in Hong Kong jurisprudence. The granting of such a loan amounts to an indictable offence. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455), it is an offence for any persons to deal with proceeds of an indictable offence with requisite knowledge. In other words, I and/or any remittance company dealing with the loan proceeds may lead to criminal liability under Hong Kong law. 
Furthermore, an indictable offence in Hong Kong is equivalent to a felony offense under Philippines law and thus the activity of 123 is equally prohibited pursuant to Part 34 of Paragraph Two defining "Unlawful Activity" as set forth within Republic Act No. 9160, as amended. 
It is my understanding that remittance companies in Hong Kong are alert to accounts of and relating to 123 in compliance with their anti-money laundering obligations, and therefore 123 is using their Philippines based staff to receive the tainted funds via cash pick up to bypass such measures. I am aware of at least the following methods of payment advised by 123:
* Cash pick up by Jay Acalain Bation;
* China Bank Savings account no. 616100001153;
* BDO Unibank, Inc (BDO) account nos.: 00-13901888-58, 00-41680074-25, and 002-708-026-86.
________________


Illegal Recruitment
The conduct of 123 and potential of collusion with employment agencies reflect grave concerns of debt bondage and human trafficking (see Sections 2 & 10 of the attached dossier).
Illegal recruitment by charging excessive interest 
The actual interest rate of my loan from 123 far exceeds the 8% per annum interest rate allowable pursuant to the Revised POEA Rules and Regulations Governing the Recruitment and Employment of Landbased Overseas Filipino Workers of 2016 and Section 6(1) of Republic Act No. 8042, also known as the Migrant Workers and Overseas Filipinos Act of 1995, as amended by Republic Act No. 10022.
Illegal recruitment by imposing a compulsory and exclusive loan arrangement 
My employment agency required me to take a loan from 123 for the purposes of financing training, medical and other illegal fees. I was not given the option of applying for a loan from any other entity. This, I believe, constitutes imposing a compulsory and exclusive arrangement whereby an overseas Filipino worker is required to avail of a loan only from specifically designated institutions, entities or persons in violation of Section 6(2) of Republic Act No. 8042, also known as the Migrant Workers and Overseas Filipinos Act of 1995, as amended by Republic Act No. 10022.
Trafficking in Persons
The arrangements of 123 have led me to incur an unreasonably high amount of fees. I have been threatened, intimidated and harassed by 123 to repay the illicit amounts, and I have had to contribute a significant majority of my monthly salary to these illegal loan repayments. By imposing this exploitative arrangement with exorbitant fees and interest rates, 123 has effectively facilitated my recruitment under the pretext of domestic or overseas employment for the purpose of forced labor and debt bondage. This, I suspect, would constitute trafficking in persons and a violation of Section 4(j) of Republic Act No. 9208, also known as the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2003.


In light of the above, I request that the SEC take immediate steps to investigate the illicit conduct of 123 using all means available under its jurisdiction and/or promptly further endorse my complaint to the appropriate government agency with jurisdiction. I intend and am willing to pursue my complaint to the fullest extent of the law. 
Please see enclosed relevant evidence for the above mentioned illicit activities and a detailed dossier outlining the said violations. Should you have any further questions regarding this matter, please do not hesitate to contact me via the email address provided in the complaint form.


Yours Sincerely,




________________


ATTACHMENT


Please access the dossier via the following link: 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V_rVWdMhQCMZF6ghcMZrDs7aGnHsVmgh/view?usp=sharing