1. May consider working with EmpowerU
   1. Many mention excessive interests charged by money lenders, exploitation by employment agencies, etc. (for collection of evidence)
2. May consider starting binders against agencies in collusion with money lenders
3. May research on Competition Ordinance
   1. First Conduct Rule (prohibition of anti-competitive agreements, concerted practices and decisions)
      1. Note the cross-jurisdictional effect of s8, even if
The first conduct rule applies to an agreement, concerted practice or decision that has the object or effect of preventing, restricting or distorting competition in Hong Kong even if—
(a) the agreement or decision is made or given effect to outside Hong Kong;
(b) the concerted practice is engaged in outside Hong Kong;
(c) any party to the agreement or concerted practice is outside Hong Kong; or
(d) any undertaking or association of undertakings giving effect to a decision is outside Hong Kong.
	

   2. Second Conduct Rule (Abuse of Market Power)
      1. Constitute abuse if
“limiting production, markets or technical development to the prejudice of consumers.” s21(2)(b)
      2. Note the cross-jurisdictional effect of s23, even if
(a)the undertaking engaging in the conduct is outside Hong Kong; or
(b)the conduct is engaged in outside Hong Kong.
      3. Some relevant conducts may be:
Tying and bundling: Where an undertaking makes the sale of one product conditional on the purchase of another. This is considered anti-competitive where the undertaking leverages its substantial degree of market share in a product sector to increase sales in another as a means to force competitors out of the linked market by limiting potential buyers 
      4. However, note the requirement on “substantial degree market power”, annual turnover, etc.
      5. Maybe useful
https://www.compcomm.hk/en/legislation_guidance/guidance/second_conduct_rule/files/Guideline_The_Second_Conduct_Rule_Eng.pdf
https://www.clic.org.hk/en/topics/Competition_Law/Second_Conduct_Rule/Scope/index.shtml
   3. Relevant authorities:
      1. Competition Tribunal
      2. Competition Commission


The Philippine Competition Act [Republic Act No. 10667]


1. Jurisdiction
Sec. 3. Scope and Application. — This Act shall be enforceable against any person or entity engaged in any trade, industry and commerce in the Republic of the Philippines. It shall likewise be applicable to international trade having direct, substantial, and reasonably foreseeable effects in trade, industry, or commerce in the Republic of the Philippines, including those that result from acts done outside the Republic of the Philippines


2. Anti-competitive agreements (s.14)
(c) Agreements other than those specified in (a) and (b) of this section which have the object or effect of substantially preventing, restricting or lessening competition shall also be prohibited: Provided, Those which contribute to improving the production or distribution of goods and services or to promoting technical or economic progress, while allowing consumers a fair share of the resulting benefits, may not necessarily be deemed a violation of this Act. An entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity or entities, have common economic interests, and are not otherwise able to decide or act independently of each other, shall not be considered competitors for purposes of this section.
→ borrowing from the experience in other jurisdictions, possible actions: customer allocation/ exclusive dealing 
1. Application: when agencies refer domestic workers to money lenders at the orientation/ during its interview sessions, it can create a foreclosure effect that other money lenders’ access to this customer group is denied - resulting in less competition among the money lenders  
2. Potential hurdles
   1. exclusivity b/w the agency and money lenders in the first place 
   2. Domestic workers need to have no alternative money lenders to go to but only those they’re referred to 


3. S15 Abuse of Dominant Position. – It shall be prohibited for one or more entities to abuse their dominant position by engaging in conduct that would substantially prevent, restrict or lessen competition:
   1. Only applicable if the money lender in question has a dominant position e.g. substantial market share, weak countervailing powers of the supplier or consumers, market entry barriers, etc
   2. If yes, and subject to exception (usually commercial reason and efficiency and no net harm to consumers), the following conducts can amount to abuse - 


(c) Making a transaction subject to acceptance by the other parties of other obligations which, by their nature or according to commercial usage, have no connection with the transaction;
→ applicable when applicants are required to open bank accounts at the time of loan application because banking service has no commercial connection with loan service 


(h) Directly or indirectly imposing unfair purchase or selling price on their competitors, customers, suppliers or consumers, provided that prices that develop in the market as a result of or due to a superior product or process, business acumen or legal rights or laws shall not be considered unfair prices; 
→ the excessively high interest rate (illegal) should be considered as unfair 
	

4. Consider emailing the Philippines SEC on whether the representations of the interest rate of lending companies are legally binding
   1. Emailed, but no response
   2. Significance: possible application of the Truth in Lending Act, etc.
5. Consider the problem of lending companies asking victims to remit to their relatives, instead of remitting money directly to the lending companies as possible way to bypass bank scrutiny
   1. Present leeway → focus on direct remittance from Hong Kong
   2. Problem: the numbers of direct remittance are getting lower → HK authority may deny following up on the cases
   3. Possible solution: ask victims for screenshots in which the money lenders instruct them to remit money through indirect transfer (to reactive to the money lender)
6. Consider the problem of lending companies listed as “relatives” for remittance purposes
   1. Whether constitutes misrepresentation?
   2. Any liability on banks for omitting? Due diligence?
   3. Any evidence of instruction from money lender on this method?
7. (if possible), locate more OLM victims!
   1. We only have Regina, although her case sounds strong…
8. (if possible and applicable) locate 123’s partner (if any) in Hong Kong
   1. Victims received demand letters from 123, possible evidence pointing to partners in Hong Kong, may it is the personal remitter…?