Email: info@jemhk.org
21 November 2020

Via Post To:
Consul-General Raly L. Tejada
Consulate General of the Philippines in Hong Kong
14th floor, United Centre 95 Queensway, Admiralty
Hong Kong SAR
	

RE: SUSPECTED ILLEGAL LENDING, MONEY LAUNDERING, AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING SCHEME INVOLVING 123 FINANCE CORPORATION AND RELATED ENTITIES


To Whom It May Concern:

We are writing to the Consulate General of the Philippines in Hong Kong (“PCG-HK”)  to:

(i) report a money lender-employment agency syndicate that is exploiting thousands of overseas Filipino workers in Hong Kong SAR (“OFWs”); and
(ii) request a prompt and complete investigation be undertaken.

By way of background, thousands of OFWs have been victimized by money lender-employment agency syndicates. These syndicates generally deceive, coerce, or force OFWs into obtaining high interest loans from money lenders located in the Philippines in Hong Kong. The proceeds of these loans are required to be used to pay excessive and prohibited employment agency fees.

If OFWs refuse to obtain these illicit loans, the employment agency will generally cancel or threaten to cancel their deployment abroad. Once OFWs have arrived in Hong Kong their employment agencies (in Hong Kong SAR and the Philippines) will generally conspire together and intimidate OFWs into making monthly payments to their money lender in Hong Kong SAR or in the Philippines through 7-Eleven QR Codes, remittance services, or blank cheques that have been confiscated by the money lender or employment agency.

The illicit activity of 123 FINANCE CORPORATION is detailed within the attached documents and there is significant evidence of substantial and serious (felony and indictable) offenses being committed by 123 FINANCE CORPORATION and the involved employment agencies.

Consul-General Tejada, we ask that prompt action be taken to ensure the rule of law is upheld and the thousands of OFW victims are not stripped of justice. Endeavors should be made to swiftly launch an investigation, conduct witness interviews, and coordinate with law enforcement partners.

Should you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact us at info@jemhk.org.


Sincerely,
Justice for Ethnic Minorities