P.O. Box 50499, Sai Ying Pun Post Office, Hong Kong
Email: info@jemhk.org
To Whom It May Concern:
Re: Case Support For Ms. JESSICA CRUZ
This letter is to confirm that Ms. JESSICA CRUZ sought advice from Justice for Ethnic Minorities - Hong
Kong (“JEM-HK”). JEM-HK provides assistance to ethnic minorities, including foriegn domestic workers
throughout Hong Kong. In addition to providing assistance we collaborate with members of civil society to
investigate illegal employment agencies and illegal lending companies.
It has come to our attention that Ms. CRUZ is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending company,
HOYA Lending Investor Corporation ("Hoya"). In this case, Hoya has colluded with an employment
agency in the Philippines to coerce Ms. CRUZ into taking a loan carrying excessive interest to fund
illegal agency fees. Additionally, Hoya has failed to produce a valid loan agreement which can prove
obligations on the part of Ms. CRUZ. Descriptions of further suspected violations are attached.
As such, we have assisted Ms. CRUZ and at least 40 other victims of this scheme to file official complaints
as is their legal right, and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities to bring the
perpetrators to justice. We have advised Ms. CRUZ not to pay Hoya unless: (1) Hoya provides the
legal documents required by law, and (2) all relevant government authorities have completed their
investigations on Hoya. Please feel assured that Ms. CRUZ is not acting illegally by refusing to make
these payments, and you should not feel pressured by any entity which forces her to pay.
While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of
Hoya is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt. This is a likely attempt to
get the workers fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal complaints
with authorities. We have already informed Hoya to cease and desist from further correspondence, and that
any correspondence with Ms. CRUZ should use our office address.
We ask you to fully support Ms. CRUZ as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is
granted under law. This case will not affect the work of Ms. CRUZ, nor will there be financial costs or time
out of usual work hours. By continuing to be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal
behavior - which is sadly all too common in Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.
Thank you for all your support. We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your
family. If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free to email us at info@jemhk.org.
Sincerely,
Justice for Ethnic Minorities
List of HOYA Lending Investor Corporation’s Violations
Legal Basis Explanation of activity
Money Lenders Ordinance
(Cap. 163)
The loans from HOYA carry an interest rate exceeding the limit of 60%
per annum which is an indictable offence in Hong Kong.
Organized and Serious
Crimes Ordinance
(Cap. 455)
Entities in Hong Kong seeking to collect or remit the loan monies are
dealing or attempting to deal with proceeds of an indictable offence
which constitutes money laundering.
Personal Data (Privacy)
Ordinance (Cap. 486)
HOYA’s (previous) Hong Kong partner Carry You discloses personal
information to third parties without authorization. Carry You has also
failed to respond to data access requests.
Republic Act No. 3765 - Truth
in Lending Act
HOYA refuses to provide borrowers with a Disclosure Statement and
Loan Agreement as required by law.
Republic Act No. 10173 –
Data Privacy Act of 2012
The personal information of borrowers have been disclosed to third
parties without authorization, namely the alleged agent of HOYA in Hong
Kong, Carry You (HK) Service Limited. HOYA has also been
documented to post personal details of its borrowers online without
permission.
Republic Act No. 9194 Unlawful activities captured by the Act include “[f]elonies or offenses of a
similar nature that are punishable under the penal laws of other
countries.” As such, the collection of loan proceeds by HOYA constitutes
money laundering because the activities of HOYA constitute an
indictable (felony) offense under Hong Kong’s Money Lenders
Ordinance.
Republic Act No. 10022 Acting in concert with employment agencies in the Philippines to grant
loans to prospective overseas foreign workers; granting loans at an
excessive loan interest rate. HOYA has furthermore retained blank
checks from prospective borrowers as leverage or apparent blackmail.
Republic Act No. 7394:
Consumer Act of the
Philippines
HOYA fails to provide disclosure documents as required under the Act and
furthermore engages in deceptive and unconscionable sales practices to
induce borrowers into entering unfavourable transactions.
SEC Memorandum Circular No.
18 Series of 2019
HOYA engages in unfair debt collection practices, including the use of
deceptive means and threats to take action which cannot legally be taken.
Other practices which are unfair, abusive, or contrary to public interest:
1. Suspected blackmail;
2. Potential collusion and/or fraudulent practices with banks and attempts to take effective control over
personal bank accounts of victims;
3. False assertions of taking legal action and disclosing personal information;
4. Refusing to verify the accuracy of the loan agreements and payments.