Complaint Form - 19 March 2020                                                      PRIVILEGED & CONFIDENTIAL
Q.8


The present complaint of professional misconduct by Messrs Tso Au Yim & Yeung (“TAYY”) arises from the contents of the enclosed letter from TAYY dated 29 January 2020. Specifically, the complaint is predicated on the dishonest and/or grossly negligent representations made by TAYY in its letter.


Background


(i) ESMP 1418/2011


On 8 June 2012, the Licencing Court handed down judgment on an Application for Renewal of Money Lender’s Licence (ESMP 1418/2011) (“Judgment”)[1] whereby the applicant, Niaga Finance Company Limited (“Niaga”), was represented by Mr. Harold Ng as instructed by TAYY. 


The case (ESMP 1418/2011) concerned Niaga’s application for renewal of a Money Lender’s Licence which faced objection by the respondent, a non-governmental organisation called Helpers for Domestic Helpers (as it then was) (“HDH”). After a 5-days hearing, the Court refused HDH’s objection and granted Niaga a renewal of its Money Lender’s Licence. In the course of those proceedings, the Court made several important findings relevant to the present complaint. The findings relate to: (1) the laws governing loans which had been assigned to Niaga and of which Niaga has the right to enforce payment in Hong Kong; and (2) the obligations of Niaga pursuant to the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486) (“PDPO”). 


In respect of the first finding, the Court rejected Niaga’s assertion that the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163) (“MLO”) did not apply to loans which were not made ‘directly’ to the foreign domestic helpers by Niaga (but made by overseas Philippines agencies). In arriving at this conclusion the Court considered the definition of “loan” as set out in the MLO and assessed the nature of the loans in question (i.e. loans which had been assigned by the Philippines agencies to Niaga and to which Niaga had the right to enforce payment in Hong Kong). Ultimately, the Court found that “such transactions are caught by the MLO and Niaga is bound by the provisions in the MLO” (paragraph 78 of Judgment).


In respect of the second finding, the Court granted the renewal of the Money Lender’s Licence to Niaga on the basis that it would comply with several conditions, including that Niaga “...shall at all times comply with the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, Cap 486, Law of Hong Kong, in the collection, use, holding and processing of such information or personal data”  (paragraph  137 of Judgment).


To the best of my knowledge there has not been an appeal to the case and the Judgment stands as a final determination.


(ii) Correspondence with Niaga / TAYY


On 19 December 2019, I was assisted by Global Migration Assistance (“GMA”) in issuing a demand letter to Niaga requesting inter alia information and/or documentation relating to the loan agreement and arrangement between myself, Niaga, and Cash4U Financing Corp (incorporated in the Philippines) (“Cash4U”). It is my understanding that the factual matrix of my loan agreement and arrangement with Niaga and Cash4U are similar to the facts in ESMP 1481/2011 (i.e. a Philippines agency procured from me, a foreign domestic helper, a loan with exorbitant interest rates and then assigned such loan to Niaga for enforcement in Hong Kong).


On 29 January 2020, TAYY responded to my demand letter by informing GMA that it represented Niaga and was instructed that Niaga “is not the money lender or creditor… but acted merely as debt collection agent on behalf of Cash4U”. TAYY also stated that it was Niaga’s “belief and understanding that the relevant loan agreement and arrangement was made in the Republic of the Philippines and governed by the laws of the Republic of the Philippines, thus the laws of Hong Kong including without limitation the Money Lender Ordinance in Hong Kong is not applicable in the present case”. I understand that this statement by TAYY is contrary to the Judgment made by the Licencing Court in ESMP 1481/2011. Given that TAYY represented Niaga in ESMP 1481/2011 and therefore has actual or ostensible knowledge of the Judgment, and absent any further elaboration on relevant laws, it is deceptive (or at least irresponsible and incompetent) of TAYY to have provided me with such a response.


Further, I had requested in my demand letter (which enclosed a duly signed and completed Data Access Request Form) that Niaga releases to me any personal data that was in its collection, use, holding and processing. In response, TAYY reiterated that Niaga “only acts as collection agent” and stated that my requested “personal data and information, if any, was collected by Cash4U but not [Niaga]”. First and most importantly, this response contravenes the Judgment in ESMP 1481/2011 whereby the Court found that Niaga’s function and legal obligations in relation to transactions similar to mine were not limited to ‘debt collection’. Second, TAYY’s response apparently stands against Data Protection Principle 6 under the PDPO: on its face, Niaga is obliged to provide me access to my personal data by virtue of being a ‘data user’ “who, either alone or jointly with other persons, controls the collection, holding, processing or use of [my] personal data”. TAYY also claimed without providing reasons that the data requested by me “do not fall within the definition of personal data”.




Professional misconduct by TAYY


In view of the above, it is clear that TAYY has misled me and engaged in serious misrepresentations. Its irresponsible actions have caused undue hardship and detriment to me as a layperson as I have been forced to reverse orchestrate the laws set out in and factual circumstances surrounding ESMP 1481/2011 in order to pursue my legal entitlements. In the present circumstances, TAYY knew or should have known (irrespective of its “client’s belief and understanding” of any facts or laws to the contrary) of Niaga’s legal obligations. It is dishonest and/or grossly negligent for TAYY to claim that the MLO does not govern transactions between myself, Niaga, and Cash4U. Similarly, it is dishonest and/or grossly negligent for TAYY to insist that Niaga is merely a “collection agency” and therefore not obliged to provide me with the personal data set out in my Data Access Request Form. 


Given TAYY’s pre-existing client-solicitor relationship with Niaga and its representation of Niaga in ESMP 1481/2011, the ordinary standards of reasonable and honest people would dictate that TAYY should be cognizant of Niaga’s operational and legal history as well as the relevant laws at play. Furthermore, seeing as TAYY purports to be and acts as a law firm in Hong Kong, it is obliged to conduct due diligence of the matters put before it and cannot blindly follow its client’s instructions. Accordingly, I submit that TAYY knowingly or by way of gross negligence committed breaches of its professional duties and misconducted itself in the course of its correspondence with me. TAYY’s practices defy the spirit and purpose of the legal profession as embedded in the Hong Kong Solicitors’ Guide to Professional Conduct and fail to meet the minimum standards of conduct required of a law firm in Hong Kong.


I make this complaint in order that the Law Society conducts an investigation into the matter as appropriate. I look forward to your early reply.








________________
[1] See the enclosed copy of the transcript of the audio recording of the Judgment.