Consumer Complaint Form Confirmation | Consumer Council 14/1/2020, 5)54 PM
https://www.consumer.org.hk/ws_en/cc-complaint/complaintFormConfirm.php Page 1 of 2
Complainant Information
Trader Information
Complaint Case Details
Consumer Complaint Form Confirmation
Consumers are advised to negotiate with the trader to settle disputes. If the trader fails to address your concern, you are welcome to lodge a complaint with the
Consumer Council. The Council resolves disputes between consumers and traders by way of conciliation.
Have you lodged a complaint with the trader?
Yes
Name *
MissAna Shila Adizas Patino
Are you a tourist ?
No
Country / City of residence
Hong Kong
Mailing Address
Hong Kong Address:
15B1, Floor 15, Block NIL, 7-9 HILL ROAD, Please Select, Hong Kong
Daytime Phone
62321553
Email Address
patino.anashilaadizas@gmail.com
Trader Name
Niaga Finance Company Limited
Trader Address (Only for Hong Kong Registered Address)
Flat 1411, Floor 14 655 Nathan Road, Mongkok, Kowloon
Trader Phone 1
36671888
Trader Email
general@niagahk.com
Trader Fax
28684963
Goods or Services
under Complaint
Service
Industry and Category
Bank & Financial
Services
Description of or
Services Type
Strange Loan
Arrangement
Nature of Complaint
Others
Attach Supporting Documents (such as, invoice, contract, bill statements, etc.)
PATINO-Follow-Up-Demand.pdf
Invoice/Documents No. (If any)
Loan No.: T7003594
Consumer Complaint Form Confirmation | Consumer Council 14/1/2020, 5)54 PM
https://www.consumer.org.hk/ws_en/cc-complaint/complaintFormConfirm.php Page 2 of 2
Personal Information Collection Statement
Consent for Disclosing Personal Data and Documents
The Council collects and holds Personal Information for one or more of the following purposes:
i) To consider, respond to, and take follow up action in respect of your complaint;
ii) To conduct market studies into matters concerning consumer interests in Hong Kong and/or for other research and statistical purposes
I acknowledge and consent to both the purposes listed above for which my personal data will be used
I understand that all the information (including the supporting documents and this form) and personal data (except the “Age” and “Monthly Income”) supplied by me will
only be used for purposes which are directly related to the case concerned. I agree that Consumer Council may transfer the same to the related parties who will be
involved in the investigation of the case, including the party being complained against, relevant Government Departments, related authorities and organizations, as well
as other agencies which are authorized to receive information relating to law enforcement, prosecution and review of decisions.
I agree to the disclosure of the information.
Complaint Summary (no more than 1000 words)
Niaga Finance Company Limited (Niaga) has engaged in inappropriate anti-consumer practices by apparently: 
1.) Attempting to collect money that related to an excessive interest loan, which may constitute an indictable offence and thus money laundering; 
2.) Failing to provide a copy of the alleged loan agreement or explaining the fees, payment information, penalties, etc; 
3.) Not responding to inquiries for clarification;
Others : 1.) A answer to the attached letter; and/or 2.) A letter stating the alleged loan is forgiven.
Desired Conciliation Outcome
Request Direct Reply from the trader?
I agree that Consumer Council asks the trader to reply to me directly in verbal or written form for efficient handling of the case.
Submit Edit