To Whom It May Concern:


Case Support For Ms. try try

This letter is to confirm that Ms. try try sought advice from Justice for Ethnic Minorities - Hong Kong (“JEM-HK”). JEM-HK provides assistance to ethnic minorities, including foriegn domestic workers throughout Hong Kong. In addition to providing assistance we collaborate with members of civil society to investigate illegal employment agencies and illegal lending companies.


It has come to our attention that Ms. try is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending company Lico Lending Investor Corporation Finance Limited and their affiliates (“Lico Lending Investor Corporation”). In this case, Lico Lending Investor Corporation has reportedly engaged in illicit behavior, including but not limited to harassment, the unauthorized disclosure of personal, and operation of an unlicensed savings account. 


As such, we have assisted Ms. try and other victims to file official complaints as is their legal right, and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities to bring the perpetrators to justice. We have informed Ms. try of potential concerns regarding the activity of Lico Lending Investor Corporation and provided her with information on how to report suspected violations of relevant laws. For example, Lico Lending Investor Corporation has disclosed personal information to employers without consent in what appears to be a clear violation of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance. Please feel assured that Ms. try is not acting illegally by pursuing her legal rights, and you should not feel pressured by any entity which forces her to pay. 


While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of Lico Lending Investor Corporation is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt. This is a likely attempt to get the workers fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal complaints with authorities. Should you receive calls or demand letters for Ms. try, please ignore them entirely and retain records as evidence if possible. We have already informed Lico Lending Investor Corporation to cease and desist from further contact. It is our understanding that law enforcement authorities are actively investigating Lico Lending Investor Corporation and therefore we find it highly unlikely that they would cause any inconvenience beyond mere messages and calls.


We ask you to fully support Ms. try as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is granted under law. This case will not affect the work of Ms. try, nor will there be financial costs or time out of usual work hours. Any correspondence with Ms. try will use our office address. By continuing to be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal behavior - which is sadly all too common in Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.


Thank you for all your support.  We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your family.  If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free to email us at info@jemhk.org. 


Sincerely,


Justice for Ethnic Minorities