How to Create Binders: Social Media Scraping, Legal Research, and Binder Building






I. Social Media Scraping        2
A. Setting up        2
B. Creating posts        3
C. Responding to enquiries        6
D. Scraping        7
II. Legal Research        10
A. Hong Kong legislation        10
B. Hong Kong case law        17
C. Databases for case law research        18
D. Philippines Law        24
III. Binder Building        27
A. Binder template and existing binders        27
B. Preparation        27
C. Formulating arguments        28
D. Making exhibits        28
E. Putting everything together        29
F. Useful resources for binder building        29
IV. Additional Resources        30




________________
I. Social Media Scraping
A. Setting up
1. Create a pseudonymous Facebook account or select from the list of existing accounts below.
   1. Use This Person Does Not Exist to search for randomly generated profile pictures.
   2. Keep refreshing the page, try to search for a female profile who looks ethnically close to most migrant workers (e.g. Filipina, Malaysian).
   3. Alternatively, simply use a non-conspicuous picture of anything.
2. If you do make a new dummy account, remember to give us the login information so we can add it to the table.
Existing Facebook dummy accounts
Name
	Email
	Password
	Notes
	Darna Dimayuga
	darnadimy@gmail.com 
	

	Gmail account has the same password
	Estrella Marquez
	estrella.mq93@gmail.com
	

	Gmail account has the same password
	

3. Join and/or like popular pages among migrant workers in Hong Kong.
   1. Some examples: HelperChoice Employers - Home, Hong Kong Domestic Helpers & Drivers - Home, POLO - HONG KONG - Home, The SUN Hong Kong - Home
4. Ask to be added to Migrasia’s social media pages.
   1. HALO: Help For Agency, Lender, Or Other Assistance Team
   2. SAFE Hong Kong
   3. Help & Support For HK Domestic Workers - Agency, Employer, & Immigration
   4. Anti-Illegal Recruitment Task Force
   5. Report Bad Agencies
   6. FDW Know Your Rights
   7. Heroes Against Illicit Money Lenders
   8. First Timer - HK OFW Support Page
   9. Suspicious Agency Warnings
   10. Best Agencies For Hong Kong Deployment
5. Ask to be added to Migrasia’s Facebook groups.
   1. Hong Kong domestic helper jobs (OFW, FDH)
   2. Domestic Workers Against Unethical Agencies
   3. Help and Support For HK Domestic Workers (Agency, Employer, & Immigration)
6. Ask to be added to Migrasia’s Facebook group chats. These are extremely helpful for clients to meet others with similar experiences as themselves and to obtain peer support and faster responses.
   1. LINKS e.g. Rich Credit support chats


B. Creating posts
1. Make posts about a particular money lender to engage with witnesses and collect intelligence. Examples (click photos for full post):


1. Questions
	  
  

	What makes it good?
* Specific target highlighted with all caps and/or underline
* Simple, straightforward questions –– easy to create!
* Tagalog can connect with a wider audience
	2. Warnings
	  

	Caption
Anyone know this money lender? 


Did Eastgate Manpower Corporation refer you to this company? 


According to the Philippines Government, CEAZAR PACIFIC MONEY LENDING CO. LTD had its money lending license SUSPENDED in 2017. 


Be careful, if you are from this lending company or Eastgate Manpower Corporation please comment or message us. 


Thank you!
	  

	Caption
Be careful of suspended agencies!


Please avoid any agency that is engaged in unethical behavior, OVERCHARGING, or other illicit behavior such as:


1.) Forcing you to get a loan;
2.) Forcing you to use a specific training center;
3.) Charging unnecessary and excessive fees;
4.) Withholding your documents;
5.) Working with illegal sub-agents;


If you have any questions or concerns about good or bad agencies, please let us know.


Salamat!
	What makes it good?
* Full name and contact information of target shown
* Warning of explicit illegality –– even better if the photo shows evidence of wrongdoing
* It is educational and informative
* Caption encourages audience to engage 
	3. Success stories
	  

	Caption
Wooow! A brave OFW stood up to both her agency and POLO discouragement and got a refund! Congrats to her, I wonder who is next
	  

	Caption
WOW, WOW, WOW!


A brave OFW got 5,000 HKD agency fee refund! Great work!


If your agency charged you over 10% of first month salary in Hong Kong or charged you excessive or unreasonable fees in the Philippines (greater than 20,000 PHP), you can report to POLO to file for a refund!


Thank you! To all the brave OFWs who are willing to stand up to bad acting agencies: YOU ARE HEROS!


If you need help apply for a refund, you can report to the 16th floor of POLO Sunday to Thursday and file an agency overcharging form. Your memory is enough to fill out the form, just bring you HKID or passport.
	What makes it good?
* Real-life examples encourage people to act, and can make them feel less alone :)
* Easy-to-follow instructions
* It is educational and informative
	

2. Always make sure that posts contain personal opinions only, using words such as “allegedly”, “it seems like”, or “appears to”. Otherwise, we may be liable for defamation.
3. De-escalate arguments in comment sections by saying things such as “It’s your decision.” or “I respect your thinking.” Do not argue with people.
4. Encourage people to message the pages.


C. Responding to enquiries
1. The first step when talking to someone seeking help is to identify the type of problem they are experiencing. The most common types of problems are:
   1. Agency Problem - overcharging, passport withheld, no receipts, delayed deployment, etc;
   2. Employer Problem - abuse, not enough food, no day off, claims, etc;
   3. Lender Problem - excessive interest rate, no loan agreement, harassment, etc,;
   4. Other Problems - seeking a boarding house,hospital/medical problem, emergency problems, etc.
2. You may start by using the following standardised response: “Hi (name), how may I help you today? Do you have an agency, employer, lending, or other problem?”
   1. Language tips: consider using the formality “po” in Tagalog to sound more familiar and polite when talking to Filipinas; for example, “Hello, how can I help you po?”
   2. You may say “salamat po” (thank you po) for extra politeness.
3. If a client is unsure, ask for more information and tell them that a “case manager” will contact them later.
4. Assist clients with straightforward questions by Googling (e.g. what is the maximum placement fee that employment agencies can charge?). If still unsure, contact the Migrasia team.
5. Label the conversation with the name of the employment agencies and/or money lenders mentioned.
6. Add clients to existing chat groups where appropriate.
   1. Example: If a client is concerned about money lender problems they can be added to a group focused on money lender issues. Furthermore, if their concern is about a specific money lender, such as Rich Credit, the client can be added to a group focusing on Rich Credit.
7. Provide contact information of other NGOs.
   1. HELP
   2. Mission
   3. Christian Action
   4. Enrich
   5. Dignity Institute
8. Where appropriate, advice on the following topics can be given:
   1. Maintaining evidence (nothing should be deleted or thrown away)
   2. Contact info and hours of availability for other NGOs
   3. Emergency shelters and flyers if applicable
   4. Call recording software
   5. Self incrimination
   6. Safety and well being
   7. Hong Kong free legal advice and duty lawyer service
9. Direct clients with more pressing issues to our office. Do not disclose the address. Simply saying HKU station Exit B near McDonalds usually suffices. A member of staff usually will pick clients up from there. 


D. Scraping
1. Collect, document, and download data of wrongdoing. Information about a particular target should be scraped by browsing and searching at least the following locations:
   1. Facebook pages
      1. Comment section underneath posts
      2. Direct messages - use search function to pinpoint target
   2. Facebook groups
   3. Facebook groupchats 
   4. Facebook search
   5. Google search
   6. Additional notes


Useful data to look out for
Type
	Example
	Remarks
	Identification documents, e.g. HKID, passports.
	  

	Useful for identifying clients’ real names and filing complaints.
	Receipts
	  
  

	

	Transactional or payment information, e.g. 
* Loan agreement
* Payment slips/instructions
* QR Codes
* Payment cards
* Etc.
	Sample loan agreements


  
  
  
  

	See 2 examples of 7-11 payment cards, 1 example of QR code and 1 example of payment slip.
	Correspondence, e.g. demand letters, warning letters
	Sample demand letter


	

	Training certificate, e.g. PDOS (Pre-Departure Orientation Seminar) certificate
	  

	Only applicable to Filipina workers, the PDOS certificate contains key information such as the local and foreign agencies, and the name of the foreign employer
	Screenshots of chat conversations
	  

	In particular, keep an eye out for harassing and threatening messages or evidence of excessive phone calls
	Screenshots of wrongdoing on social media, e.g. public Facebook posts with personal data
	  

	The example is a picture of a borrower which was posted by a money lender on Facebook as a threat, this is also illegal collateral for a loan
	Employment contracts
	

	

	Audio/video recordings 
	Sample Recordings
	E.g. phone calls, recordings of the inside of agency offices etc.
	Photographic evidence of abuse, injuries or illegal activity
	

	

	Contact info or identity of individuals/entities associated with bad agencies or money lenders, e.g. 
* Business cards 
* Bank accounts
* Screenshots of official website
* Suspicious Facebook profiles
	  

	Keep an eye open for suspicious Facebook profiles because some money lenders will employ collectors who post victims’ data on their personal Facebook accounts. Some money lenders may also use personal accounts instead of pages. See for example eLend Master Limited - suspected violations (26 Feb 2020).
	

2. Upload data to respective Google folders, in which there are a number of sub-folders:
   1. Data pertaining to individual clients should be uploaded to Client folders (often known as “known victims”).
   2. If a client does not have a folder, create a new one by naming it as follows: “LAST NAME, Given name”.
   3. Name the uploaded data appropriately.
   4. Data that is not client specific should be uploaded to folders named Miscellaneous or General Evidence.
________________
II. Legal Research 
This section outlines important sections from commonly used legislation, as well as a step-by-step tutorial on how to use databases to research case law.


A. Hong Kong legislation
Hong Kong e-Legislation (gov)
	HKLII Ordinances
	

Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 200)
Section
	Explanation
	24
	The offence of criminal intimidation involves:
1. threats of injury to the person, property or reputation of the person; or
2. threats of injury to a third person (e.g. a family member) their property or reputation; or
3. threats of any illegal act.
	60
	Criminal damage to property
	71
	Forgery
	72-76
	Possessing and using false instruments
	161
	Access to computer with criminal or dishonest intent. Note that smartphones are computers for the purpose of this section
	



Theft Ordinance (Cap. 210)
Section
	Explanation
	2-7
	Definitions and components of theft
	16A
	Fraud
	17
	Obtaining property by deception
	18
	Obtaining pecuniary advantage by deception
	23
	Blackmail
* Definition: making any unwarranted demand with menaces.
* The demand must be made with a view to gain or with intent to cause loss to another person. Menaces simply mean threats.
* A demand with menaces is unwarranted unless the person making the demand believes he or she has reasonable grounds for making the demand and that the use of the menaces is a proper means of reinforcing the demand.
	



Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455)
Section
	Explanation
	25(1)
	Dealing with the proceeds of a crime or suspicious activity that any reasonable person may believe constitutes an indictable offense - accepting money, property, etc that was obtained through unlawful or suspicious actions.
	25A(1)
	Failing to file an suspicious transaction report upon suspicion of a money laundering scheme or transaction relating to money laundering.
	26
	Revealing that a suspicious transaction report has been made.
	



Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance (Cap. 615)
Section
	Explanation
	2
	Inadequate due diligence by financial institution.
	29
	It is an offence to operate a money service without a licence.
	34
	A money service operator licence may be revoked or suspended if the person operating the business is no longer a “fit and proper person”.
	Money Service Operator Licensing Guide Violations
	Money Service Operators must comply with Cap. 615 under the guidelines.
	Money Lender AML/CFT Licensing Condition Violations
	Money lenders must comply with Cap. 615 under the guidelines.
	



Trade Descriptions Ordinance (Cap. 362)
Section
	Explanation
	13E
	A commercial practice is a misleading omission if it:
* omits / hides / provides unclear, unintelligible, ambiguous or untimely material information;
* fails to identify its commercial intent; or
* causes the average consumer to make a transactional decision that he would not have made otherwise.
	13F
	A commercial practice is aggressive if:
* it significantly impairs the average consumer’s freedom of choice or conduct through the use of harassment, coercion or undue influence; and
* causes the consumer to make a transactional decision that he would not have made otherwise.
	13G
	It may be considered bait advertising if:
* there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the trader will be able to offer for supply a product at the price that has been advertised, or
* the trader fails to offer for supply the product advertised at that price for a reasonable period and in reasonable quantities.
	13H
	A trader who makes an invitation to purchase a product at a specified price with the intention of promoting a different product and:
* refuses to show or demonstrate the product to consumers;
* refuses to take orders for the product or deliver it within a reasonable time; or
* shows or demonstrates a defective sample of the product
	13I
	A trader wrongly accepts payment if at the time of acceptance:
* he intends not to supply the product;
* he intends to supply a product that is materially different;  or
* there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the trader will be able to supply the product:
   * within the period specified by the trader at or before the time at which the payment or other consideration is accepted; or
   * if no period is specified at or before that time, within a reasonable period.
	



Registration of Persons Ordinance (Cap. 177)
Section
	Explanation
	3
	Not registering for an HKID card within 30 days of arrival is an offence.
	7A
	Maintaining custody of another individual's HKID card is an offence.
	



Immigration Ordinance (Cap. 115)
Section
	Explanation
	17C
	Failing to carry and produce proof of identity.
	17I
	Employing a person who is not lawfully employable.
	17J
	Failing to inspect documents of a new employee.
	37D
	Arranging passage to Hong Kong of unauthorized entrants.
	37DA
	Assisting unauthorized entrant to remain.
	41
	* Working (paid or unpaid) in Hong Kong without approval from the Immigration Department; or
* violating of conditions of stay; or
* overstaying VISA.
	42(1)
	Making false representation or providing false information to immigration officer.
	42(2)
	Any person who alters, forges, or unlawfully transfers immigration documents (passport, APEC card, HKID, etc) commits an offence.
	



Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622)
Section
	Explanation
	658
	Failing to update business address.
	662(6)
	Failing to file an annual return.
	895
	Submitting false information to the Companies Registry.
	



Banking Ordinance (Cap. 155)
Section
	Explanation
	11
	Operating a banking business without a banking license.
	12
	Deposit-taking business must be conducted by an authorised institution, i.e. a licensed bank, a restricted licence bank, or a deposit-taking company.
	



Employment Ordinance (Cap. 57)
Section
	Explanation
	15AA
	Prohibition of assignment of heavy, hazardous or harmful work.
	15A(1)
	Employer commits an offence for failure to grant maternity leave, pay maternity leave pay, or pay sickness allowance.
	32A
	Remedies available to employee if employed under continuous contract.
	



Summary Offences Ordinance (Cap. 228)
Section
	Explanation
	20
	Sending menacing messages, messages known to be false for the purpose of causing annoyance, inconvenience or needless anxiety, persistently makes telephone calls without reasonable cause.
	22
	Falsely pretending to be or be able to influence a public officer.
	



Prevention of Bribery Ordinance (Cap. 201)
Section
	Explanation
	4
	Bribery
	



Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486)
Section
	Explanation
	2
	“Data user” is defined as any person who “controls the collection, holding, processing or use of data”.
	4
	A data user must not contravene data protection principles (DPPs).
	19(1)
	Data users must comply with a data access request within 40 days after receiving the request.
	64A
	Contravention of any requirement under the PDPO is an offence.
	DPP1
	Requirement relating to the purpose and manner of data collection.
	DPP3
	Personal data cannot be used for a new purpose without prescribed consent, which is defined in s. 2(3).
	DPP6
	A data subject is entitled to request access to personal data.
	



Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163)
Section
	Explanation
	7(1)(a)
	Operating a money lending business without a money lender’s licence is an offence.
	7(1)(c)
	Violating the Money Lenders Licensing Conditions is an offence.
	14(1)(a)
	Companies’ Registry or Police Commissioner may apply to revoke or suspend a licence if the money lender is not a “fit and proper person”.
	14(1)(c)
	A similar application to revoke or suspend a licence can be made if the money lender violated a Licensing Condition.
	14(1)(d)
	A similar application to revoke or suspend a licence can be made if the money lender has carried on business contrary to public interest.
	18(1)
	A money lender must give the borrower a copy of the loan agreement at the time of signing, otherwise the loan is unenforceable.
	18(2)
	List of terms a loan agreement must include.
	19
	Borrower can request information from money lender, including (i) interest rate per annum, (ii) money overdue, and (iii) due date. Money lender must respond within 1 month, otherwise the loan becomes unenforceable.
	24
	Charging interest rate per annum over 60% is an indictable offence (on indictment, fine of $5,000,000 and imprisonment for 10 years).
	29
	Various offences by money lenders, some aforementioned (e.g. carrying money lending business without licence).
	30(1)
	Offence of fraudulent inducement.
	



Money Lenders Licensing Conditions
Condition(s)
	Explanation
	1-3
	Conditions related to third parties (useful for cases of collusion with agencies or other entities).
	4
	Prohibition of additional fees.
	6, 10(b)
	Money lender to comply with Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance.
	10(c)
	Condition prohibiting harassment or improper debt collection.
	14
	Money Lenders to comply with the Guideline on Compliance of Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Requirements for Licensed Money Lenders. Non-compliance with the guide casts doubt on whether the money lender is a “fit and proper person”.
	



Money Lenders Regulations (Cap. 163A)
Section
	Explanation
	11
	Failing to include a summary of the Money Lenders Ordinance in loan agreements.
	12
	No money lender shall demand or accept as security for any loan any—
1. identity card issued under the Registration of Persons Ordinance (Cap. 177), passport, warrant card, or other document establishing the identity or nationality of the holder;
2. bank savings or deposit account book; or
3. photograph (whether developed or not) of the borrower or surety or of any member of the family of the borrower or surety.
	



Competition Ordinance (Cap 619)
Section
	Explanation
	First Conduct Rule, Section 6 
	Making or engaging in an agreement, concerted practice or decision of an undertaking which has the object or effect to prevent, restrict or distort competition in Hong Kong. This includes for instance:
* Fixing, maintaining, increasing or controlling the price for the supply of goods or services;
* Allocating sales, territories, customers or markets for the production or supply of goods or services;
* Fixing, maintaining, controlling, preventing, limiting or eliminating the production or supply of goods or services;
* Bid-rigging;
	Second Conduct Rule, Section 21
	Abuse of market power by an undertaking with a substantial degree of market power, by engaging in conduct that has the object or effect of prevention, restriction or distortion of competition in Hong Kong.
	



Pyramid Schemes Prohibition Ordinance (Cap. 617)
Section
	Explanation
	5(1)
	A person who knowingly promotes a pyramid scheme commits an offence.
	5(2)
	A person who (a) participates in, (b) knowing benefits will be derived from inducing others to join, and (c) induces others to join a pyramid scheme commits an offence.
	

	See https://www.deacons.com/zh-hk/news-and-insights/publications/the-pyramid-schemes-prohibition-ordinance-cap-617.html for applicable definition of “pyramid scheme”.
	



TCSP Rules and Regulations (https://www.tcsp.cr.gov.hk/tcspls/portal/guide/62/eng/TCSP_G2-e.pdf)
Section
	Explanation
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

MSO Rules and Regulations https://eservices.customs.gov.hk/MSOS/download/guideline/Licensing_Guide_en.pdf 
Section
	Explanation
	

	Inadequate separation between businesses
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	



B. Hong Kong case law
Common law (criminal offences)
Case
	Explanation
	

	Common assault
	

	Outraging public decency
	

	False imprisonment
	

	Conspiracy
	

	

	

Common law (civil wrongs)
Case
	Explanation
	

	Breach of contract
	

	Negligence
	

	Harassment
	

	Defamation
	

	Infringement of intellectual property
	

	Nuisance
	

	Occupiers’ Liability
	

	Unjust enrichment
	

Cases we have used in the past
Various Legal Judgements Relevant To Migration Industry
	

C. Databases for case law research


Hong Kong Judiciary - Judgments
	HKU Library → Database: L or Database: W → log in with HKU Portal
	Lexis advance Hong Kong
	Westlaw Asia
	

III. Binder Building


A. Binder template and existing binders
1. You may refer to the Binder Template and Sample Components for guidance. Essential components of binders can be found in the first 2 pages.
   1. Generally, follow the template for very important, high-profile cases (typically those that involve a long period of time, large amounts of money, and a lot of people).
   2. For shorter binders, e.g. Mutual Honour Binder June 2020.pdf, Rich Credit Binder July 2020.pdf, the structure is simpler –– these typically include 
      1. A cover letter summarising the suspected violations;
      2. An annex detailing the suspected violations and legal arguments; and 
      3. Exhibits, i.e. evidence arranged in the order in which they were mentioned.  
2. All completed binders can be found here: Migrasia Binders (2017 to present).
B. Preparation
3. Within a target’s Google Drive folder, create a sub-folder for the following binder-related documents.
4. Create rap sheets (i.e. list of suspects/related persons) using phone numbers, websites, etc. found in available evidence. 
5. Create diagram(s) that show the relationship between all relevant parties and the typology of the scheme.
   1. Money flows – how the scam works
   2. Ownerships – who owns what (use corporate records)
   3. Partnerships – who are the co-conspirators
6. With reference to the available evidence, screen ordinances to create a list of suspected violations, e.g. List of Money Lender Violations. 
7. Create social media posts sharing the list of suspected violations in English and/or Tagalog to solicit more information and ask people to come to our office for interviews.
8. If more information comes flooding in you may have to repeat the scraping process. Once you think you have enough evidence you can proceed to the next step.
C. Formulating arguments
1. Refer to the “Substantive law / legal arguments” section of the Binder Template at page 26.
2. Start by either stating or summarising the actual law. Some terms will have definitions, typically within the same section or in Section 2. 
3. Research case law for interpretation and application of ordinances. Outline their significance and explain why they are relevant to this case.
4. Apply the law to the suspected violations and explain why the requirements or elements are met.


Tip: There is, in fact, no specific point in time when you stop scraping and start writing. As you go along, you may find that you need more evidence to support a particular argument, or that your argument has changed in light of new evidence. The two may take place concurrently. This is likely to be repetitive so hang in there!


D. Making exhibits
1. Refer to the “Evidence” section of the Binder Template at pages 27 and 28.
2. Create a table for each piece of evidence with the following items in individual rows:
   1. An appropriate heading
   2. The evidence, e.g. a photo, a series of screenshots etc.
   3. Source
   4. Significance (optional, see below)
3. For documents with multiple pages, a table may not be necessary. Examples include correspondence, police statements, PDPO access request forms etc.
4. Create a table of contents for your exhibits if you do not already have one for the binder. This may include, in individual columns:
   1. Item number
   2. Page number
   3. Name or description of exhibit
   4. Victims
   5. Significance (as some exhibits may not have tables, you may choose, for consistency’s sake, to put it all in the table of contents)
5. You may wish to highlight important figures (e.g. loan amount) and names in the exhibits for extra clarity, especially in longer documents.
6. Arrange exhibits in the order in which they are first mentioned in the binder. 
7. Create a cover page for each exhibit, combine it with the exhibit into one PDF document.


E. Putting everything together
1. Confirm aggregate or estimated numbers, i.e.
   1. Number of victims
   2. Amount of illicit crime proceeds
   3. Length of time criminal activity has occurred
2. Combine the body of the binder, exhibits, and any other appendices into one PDF document. Add page numbers.
3. Voila! Your hard work is ready to be submitted to authorities and contribute to our ongoing fight against exploitation of migrant workers!


F. Useful resources for binder building
https://www.ilovepdf.com/
https://smallpdf.com/
https://combinepdf.com/
	For converting, splitting, combining PDF documents, adding page numbers and watermarks, useful for creating binders (particularly the exhibits/appendices).
	https://www.diagrams.net/
	For drawing diagrams to illustrate schemes and relationships (examples: Rich Credit Diagrams)


These diagrams can go into binders for better illustration, and can also go on social media to alert workers of illicit scams.
	Simple interest rate calculator
	For calculating interest rates, useful for money lenders cases.
	________________
IV. Additional Resources
The following links are some of Migrasia’s other guides, presentations, FAQs, etc.


1. Manuals and guides:
   1. Case Work Manual - in progress - the following sections may be useful:
1. Common Acronyms and Terms
2. Navigating Google Folders
3. Facebook Pages and Messenger
5. Client Meetings 
6. Various templates
7. Useful Links
   2. Virtual Assistants and Volunteers - note especially the section “FAQ and Standardized Responses” 
   3. Brief Agency and Lender Manual - for how to screen each case and actions to take
   4. Triage Process and Intake Process
   5. Social Media Admin Manuals - contains various training presentations
   6. Social Media Post Example
   7. Social Media Victim Identification Support System (SMVISS) - Diagram V1.0

   2. Presentations:
   1. Migrasia Goals and Strategies (presentation)
   2. Google classroom presentations


   3. Migrasia FAQ & Migrasia Wiki


   4. Forms & checklists:
   1. POLO/POEA Screening Form
   2. EAA/Labour Screening Form
   3. Due Diligence Checklist - Agency


   5. Migrasia’s role in civil society


   6. Roster of potential pro-bono lawyers

   7. Self incrimination reminders

   8. Research and industry Readings