1. Scraping information on social media
         1. Create a fake Facebook profile (you may use https://thispersondoesnotexist.com/ for profile pictures)
         2. Overview of SM pages
         3. How to create good SM posts
         4. How to chat with someone on pages?
            1. Standardized responses
            2. Hi *NAME* how can I help you today?
            3. Do you have an agency, employer, or lending problem?
            4. If people aren’t sure:
               1. Ask for more information and tell client that a “case manager” will contact them later
               2. Google simple stuff
               3. Contact team (TA, etc)
            5. Provide contact information of other NGOs
         5. Resources:
            1. Admin Manuals
            2. Social Media Post Example
            3. SMVISS - Diagram V1.0


      2. Identifying legal theories (theories may change as information is gathered)


      3. Building the Binder 
1. Binder Template
2. EXAMPLE BINDERS
3. Get all of the information on the suspects, witnesses, and any other persons of interest
   1. Going through the evidence finding phone numbers, websites, etc and documenting it within the “rap sheets” on the binder template
   2. Conduct due diligence on the entities/people/companies
4. Create diagram(s) that show the relationship (money flow) between all of the parties
   1. https://app.diagrams.net/
5. Written summary of the diagram that highlights
   1. Money flows
   2. Ownership
   3. Partnerships
   4. Etc
6. List suspected violations (screen various ordinances)
   1. List of ordinances to screen through
   2. Research case law
7. Post on social media soliciting more information by:
   1. Sharing the list of suspected violations in English/Tagalog/Etc
   2. Asking for more information
   3. Asking people to come to our office for interviews
   4. Create applicable witness information collection Google form if it hasn’t been created already
      1. Lender-specific form example - Top Credit 
8. Gathering enough evidence to justify each suspected violation and write a narrative/summary of each violation with references to the evidence.
9. Research case law again, articles, legal memos, etc to prove or disprove any theories
10. “Test” the binder by providing it to someone who doesn’t know about the scheme to:
   1. See if they can understand the scheme in 5-10 minutes
   2. See if they agree or disagree with legal theories
   3. See if they agree or disagree with evidence
11. Confirm aggregate or estimated numbers
   1. Number of victims
   2. Amount of illicit crime proceeds
   3. Length of time criminal activity has occurred
12. If applicable fill out an STR form
   1. https://www.jfiu.gov.hk/en/str.html#download
13. Other strategies with approval of Migrasia team
   1. Approach media
   2. Request meeting with government officials