Justice for Ethnic Minorities

P.O. Box 50499
Sai Ying Pun Post Office
Hong Kong


E-mail: info@jemhk.org


2 August 2020
To Whom It May Concern:


RE: Case Support For Ms. Lynith Janginon

This letter is to confirm that Ms. Lynith Janginon sought advice from Justice for Ethnic Minorities - Hong Kong (“JEM-HK”). JEM-HK provides assistance to ethnic minorities, including foriegn domestic workers, throughout Hong Kong. In addition to providing assistance we collaborate with members of civil society to investigate illegal employment agencies and illegal lending companies.


It has come to our attention that Ms. Janginon is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending company "Oversea Workers Aid Company - OWA" and its partners (collectively "OWA"). After significant research, we have concluded that OWA is: (i) not a licensed money lender; (ii) granting loans carrying excessive interest; and (iii) operating contrary to Hong Kong law. Additionally, OWA has failed to produce a valid loan agreement which can prove obligations on the part of Ms. Janginon. Please see the attached explanations for more information on OWA’s violations of Hong Kong law.


As such, we have assisted Ms. Janginon and other victims of this scheme to file official complaints as is their legal right, and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities to bring the perpetrators to justice. We have advised Ms. Janginon not to pay OWA unless: (1) OWA produces a valid money lenders license, (2) OWA provides a valid legal agreement as required by law, and (3) the relevant government authorities have completed their investigations on OWA. Please feel assured that Ms. Janginon is not acting illegally by refusing to make these payments, and you should not feel pressured by any entity which forces her to pay. It is our understanding that law enforcement authorities are actively searching for the individuals behind OWA.


While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of OWA is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt. This is a likely attempt to get the workers fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal complaints with authorities. Should you receive calls or messages, please ignore them entirely and retain records as evidence if possible. We have already informed OWA to cease and desist from further contact, and we find it highly unlikely that OWA would cause any inconvenience beyond mere messages and calls.


We ask you to fully support Ms. Janginon as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is granted under law.  This case will not affect the work of Ms. Janginon, nor will there be financial costs or time out of usual work hours.  By continuing to be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal behavior - which is sadly all too common in Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.


Thank you for all your support.  We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your family.  If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free to email us at info@jemhk.org. 


Sincerely,




Justice for Ethnic Minorities
________________
List of OWA’s Suspected Violations of Law


Legal Basis
	Explanation 
	Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163)*
	* OWA is not a licensed money lender in Hong Kong.
* OWA has failed to provide a copy of the loan agreement which may be strong evidence for unreasonable and unconscionable terms.
* The loans issued by OWA carry interest rates exceeding 60% per annum, which constitutes an indictable offence. These loans are not legally enforceable, see below.
	Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455)
	* By dealing or attempting to deal with the proceeds of an indictable offence, OWA, banks, money service operators, stored value facilities and other entities may be liable for money laundering.
	Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 200)
	* OWA threatens to: disclose personal financial information of victims to third parties, post photos of victims on social media, have police arrest the victim, prevent the victim from returning to his/her home country;
* Such threats are clearly made to intimidate and alarm the victims, and may constitute harassment, criminal intimidation, and access to a computer with dishonest or criminal intent. 
	Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486)
	* OWA (and its suspected associates or other Facebook accounts operating under pseudonyms) have repeatedly disclosed personal information of borrowers without their consent, including their names, personal identification documents, photographs, and loan details on Facebook. 
* OWA threatens to and has in fact contacted employers of victims without the consent of the employer or the victim. Such misuse of personal information constitutes unauthorized disclosure and other related offences of the PDPO. 
	Other practices which are unfair, abusive, or contrary to public interest:
1. Using and managing over 20 methods of payment including QR codes and bank accounts in an apparent attempt to evade law enforcement and engage in money laundering; 
2. Refusing to provide a physical address or any background information about lending operations;
3. Making harassing phone calls and mobile phone texts which are automatically generated and intended to cause distress to the victim and the victim’s employer;
4. Verbal abuse and use of derogatory terms in communications with borrowers;
5. Suspected blackmail;
6. Refusal to verify the accuracy of the loan agreements and payments;
7. Making unsubstantiated threats of taking legal actions and engaging collection companies for which borrowers are responsible for paying.
	



*INTEREST RATE CALCULATION FOR OWA LOANS


Loan Amount:
	$2,000
	Weekly payment:
	$300
	Interest charges
	$4,200
	Processing Fee:
	$200
	Length of loan:
	20 weeks
	Effective annual interest rate 
	607%
	Loan Principal:
	$1,800
	Total repayment:
	$6,000
	

OWA’s interest rate of 607% per annum is over 10 times the maximum allowable interest of 60% per year. Such loans carrying excessive interest rates are not enforceable under Hong Kong law, pursuant to the Money Lenders Ordinance (above). Offenders may face a fine of up to $5,000,000 HKD and imprisonment of up to 10 years.


Any person collecting or instructing payments of the loan may be dealing with proceeds of an indictable offence which may constitute money laundering, pursuant to the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (above). Offenders may face a fine of up to $5,000,000 HKD and imprisonment of up to 14 years.