Hong Kong (Generic)


To Whom This May Concern:


Pursuant to the laws of Hong Kong, I will not make any further payments until you:


1.) Provide me with a copy of the loan agreement;
2.) Provide a summary of the Money Lenders Ordinance;
3.) Clearly explain the principal, interest rate, and applicable fees.


You are further notified that you are not allowed to contact my employer under any circumstance. Doing so would likely constitute harassment, criminal intimidation, and violations of relevant privacy and money lending laws.


Should you have any questions or concerns you may message the following WhatsApp number: 5133 2839




Philippines (Generic)


Dear Sir/Ma'am,


You should cease and desist further contact with us. All messages and correspondence should be done through the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Privacy Commission. We already notarized complaints against you and it is likely the NBI or other authorities will arrest you soon.


Stop your illegal behavior, all further messages will be monitored and forwarded to the police for follow-up investigation and inclusion in court records.


Thank you.




FamilyHan


Dear FamilyHan Directors, Shareholders, Staff, Collectors, Representatives, Agents, and Affiliates Parties:


In coordination with over 100 OFWs and employers which are victims of your illicit lending scheme you are hereby informed of the following:


1.) Any further collection attempts will be reported to the HKPF, NBI, AMLC, SEC, and other law enforcement agencies. There is a prima facie case that these loans are illegal and violation numerous provisions of Hong Kong and Philippines Law;


2.) You are hereby informed that you shall not contact OFWs or their employers in Hong Kong, Singapore, or other countries/jurisdictions. You must only communicate with the representative of the borrowers and employers. Any violations of this demand will be reported to the relevant authorities.