Samusai Intelligence
SamusaiIntelligence@gmail.com 
	

15 August 2020


REPORT OF SUSPECTED CRIMINAL LENDING SYNDICATES


To Whom This May Concern:

After witnessing a significant number of illicit financial crimes we feel obliged to report our concerns to facilitate prompt AML/CFT actions. Within this letter a large number of novel and previously undetected financial schemes will be set out for the betterment of the finance industry.

We hope that all relevant financial institutions will take prompt action to conduct due diligence on the suspicious transactions and accounts mentioned herein.

Furthermore, as warranted financial institutions should take prompt action to block or freeze suspected crime proceeds.

In more specificity, this letter will highlight:

(i) Common offenses committed by money lenders;
(ii) Risks associated with providing financial services to money lenders; and
(iii) Effective AML/CFT strategies.


Illustrations of these common offenses are provided in the enclosed Exhibits within Annex 1 and summarized in tables located on the following pages.


To facilitate prompt AML/CFT actions, specific account numbers, transfers, screenshots, and other intelligence is provided within Annex 2. The supplied information will allow relevant AML/CFT teams to identify and investigation specific accounts of concerns and execute appropriate due diligence or de-risking activities. Finally, more detailed dossiers of specific schemes are enclosed within Annex 3.


Sincerely Yours,


Samusai Intelligence
________________
Common offenses committed by money lenders

The below table delineates common, mostly indictable, offenses committed by money lenders and real world reports of suspected violations:


Legal Basis
	Violation Summary
	Exhibit(s)
	Money Lenders Ordinance
	1. Money lenders often charge excessive interest or charge processing fees, late penalties, and other penalties which result in the effective interest rate exceeding 60% per annum.

The documents within Exhibit 1 illustrate a number of instances where money lenders appear to be charging excessive interest by way of illicit processing or savings fees. These extra fees are considered interest fees in accordance with Skyline Credit Ltd v Leung Hing Chung [2019] HKCFI 169.

The information within Exhibit 1 documents also show the financial accounts and companies suspected of dealing in the proceeds of excessive interest loans which is critical and arguably actionable information for AML/CFT policies and the appropriate compliance officers of financial institutions.
	1
	Banking Ordinance
	   1. Money lenders often advertise “savings” accounts or other deposit taking facilities despite not having a license from the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
	2
	Crimes Ordinance
	   1. Theft by Deception
   2. Blackmail and Criminal Intimidation
	

	Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance
	

	

	Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance
	

	

	Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders
	

	

	

	

	

	Trade Description Ordinance
	

	

	

	   3. 	

	

	

	

	Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance
	   1. Providing unlicensed remittance services
	8
	Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
	

	9
	Code of Practice for Employment Agencies
	   1. Collusion with agencies and MSOs
	10
	



Risks associated with providing financial services to money lenders


Risk
	Risk Summary
	Exhibit
	AML/CFT Risks
	   1. Excessive interest due to:
   1. Processing fee
   2. Late penalties
   3. Other fees
	13
	Reputation Risk
	

	14
	Human Trafficking Risks
	

	15
	Other Risks
	

	16
	

	

	

	





Effective AML/CFT strategies

Strategy
	Strategy Summary
	AML/CFT Risks
	Excessive interest due to:
Processing fee
Late penalties
Other fees
   1. Open source intelligence
   1. Address matching
   2. Social media complaints
	Reputation Risk
	

	Human Trafficking Risks
	Sector specific due diligence
	Other Risks