1. I make this statement to provide information on the illicit activities of a number of entities including but not limited to Ace Power Limited, Owtel Money (Hong Kong) Limited, Dr Smith Health Products Limited, Owtel Limited, Owtel Consulting Limited, and others (hereafter collectively referred to as “Owtel entities”). I make this statement voluntarily and of my own free will.
2. My name is Mary Beth Abainza Dolendo. I am 34 years old and I am a high school graduate and a Philippines national. My first language is Tagalog. 
3. I visited the Owtel Store at Shop 218, World Wide House, 19 Des Voeux Rd Central, Hong Kong on 4 June 2020 in order to apply for a loan to remit money to the Philippines. I applied for an instalment plan for a principal amount of HK$6000.
4. I was required to provide details about my employment situation, including my employer’s address and contact details. I was also asked to provide contact details of a reference and photographs of my passport, HKID and employment contract. 
5. I provided the names and contact details of the following references (i) Benige Abacajin, (ii) Erma Espora. However, at no point did Ace Power Limited, Owtel Store or any of the Owtel entities obtain written permission from the above named persons to be put down as references. 
6. A staff member at the Owtel store then gave me a receipt. This receipt showed my instalment payment schedule. The staff member pointed out the amount that I would have to pay each month, which was HK$1350 for 6 months. In total, I was required to repay HK$8100, including an application processing fee and downpayment. At no point was I given any explanation of terms such as the annual or monthly interest rate. However, calculating for simple interest shows that I was charged an annual interest rate of 70%. This exceeds the legally allowed minimum of 60% in violation of section 24(4) of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163).
7. I was also told that I would have to pay  a down payment of HK$900. This, I suspect, is also likely to be a violation of section 27(1) of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163). In consideration of the down payment the effective annual interest rate is 100%. 
8. The staff member explained that I would have to pay back in a number of instalments, and if I did not pay on time, I would be charged a late payment fee of HK$10/day. At no point was I given any explanation or legal justification for the imposition of such late fees. I suspect that this is a violation of section 22(1)(c) of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163), and in fact, courts in Hong Kong have routinely opined that such fees are illegal. 
9. I was also never provided with any loan agreement. This, I suspect, is a violation of section 18 of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163), which requires that money lenders provide a copy of the loan agreement to the borrower within 7 days of them signing it. 
10. I was instructed that I could make my payments at 7-Eleven using a QR code, direct bank transfer or using the Faster Payment Service (FPS) on Alipay, WeChat or TNG. 
11. The last payment I made to Owtel was in December 2020. In total I have paid Owtel HKD$7150 in instalments. I stopped making repayments in December 2020 as Owtel continued to increase the amount that I owed them, despite the fact that I had paid off far more than the principal amount and the total amount owed (HKD$7150 plus HKD$900). On the 21 January 2021 I received a letter from Owtel stating that I owed HKD$2410. This same letter threatened legal action. 
12. Owtel and its staff and representatives have engaged in several aggressive debt collection activities in an effort to coerce me to repay the loan instalments. Since having applied for the instalments with Owtel, I have received more than fifty phone calls from Owtel staff/employees everyday over the course of three months. Notably, in one day they called me nine times. This, I suspect, would constitute a violation of section 20 of the Summary Offences Ordinance. 
13. Owtel employees and representatives have also threatened to contact my employer to cause friction between me and my employer. This would constitute a threat to my reputation in an effort to coerce me to repay the alleged debt (which I suspect, in light of the above outlined violations of the Money Lenders Ordinance, I am not legally bound to pay). The disclosure of my personal and financial information to my employer, who is not party to the loan arrangement, would also be contrary to the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486). Therefore, the threat to contact my employer, I suspect, would constitute an offence under section 24 the Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 200). Section 24 states that any person who threatens any other person with any injury to the person, reputation or property of such other person or with any illegal act, with intent in any such case to cause the person so threatened or any other person to do any act which he is not legally bound to do shall be guilty of an offence.
14. On the phone Owtel employees and representatives have threatened to (i) publish my details on facebook (ii)  get banks to blacklist me (iii) call my employer (iv) visit my employer to demand payment. When they call, Owtel uses aggressive and offensive language. 
15. Owtel have sent messages claiming that they have ‘scheduled my house for a home visit’ and filed a claim in the small claims court for ‘breach of contract’. Owtel’s actions and threats are intended to cause me alarm and distress, and to make me fearful that my employer will terminate me. 
16. Owtel entities, and their staff, agents and representatives continue to call and message me in an effort to harass and coerce me into making instalment payments. I have not responded to them as I know that they will only try to intimidate and coerce me further. My last contact with Owtel was on 4 February, when Owtel threatened a home visit (through WhatsApp). To my knowledge, Owtel continues to call my references who do not pick up as they fear harassment.