Migration Assistance and Research
RM 15B1, 15/F, CHEUNG FAT INDUSTRIAL BUILDING
7-9 HILL ROAD, SHEK TONG TSUI, HONG KONG
migrasiaassistanceandresearch@gmail.com 
8 FEBRUARY 2021
Via Post To:
Tencent Holdings Limited
Level 29, Three Pacific Place, No.1 Queen's Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong
hkpay@wechat.com 
	Via Post To:
Hong Kong Monetary Authority
55th Floor Two International Finance Centre
8 Finance Street
Central, Hong Kong
publicenquiry@hkma.gov.hk 
	Via Post To:
Ms. Elizabeth Byun
Head of Legal and Compliance
Level 29, Three Pacific Place, No.1 Queen's Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong
policy@wechat.com 
	

	

REPORT OF SUSPECTED MONEY-LAUNDERING
WECHAT ACCOUNT: HKACCOUNTS@OWTEL.COM


To Whom This May Concern,
We write to you today to report suspected money laundering involving a WeChat account linked to the email address hkaccounts@owtel.com which is held by Ace Power Limited.
By way of background, Ace Power Limited has been documented to be dealing in the proceeds of an indictable offense by collecting funds that relate to excessive interest loans. Excessive interest, as defined by the Money Lenders Ordinance (MLO), is any interest rate above 60% per year. The MLO further states that excessive interest is an indictable offence. As such, proceeds received by Ace Power Limited in their bank account as a result of such illicit behaviour likely constitute tainted property. Such conduct likely amounts to knowingly dealing with the proceeds of an indictable offence, in violation of s.25(1) of the Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance.
Considering such, we find it important to warn Tencent Holdings Limited and relevant authorities of the illicit behavior of Ace Power Limited and hope prompt action will be taken to ensure Hong Kong and Hong Kong Banks are not used as conduits for laundering crime proceeds.
To help assist in inquiry and due diligence obligations, we wish to note that Ace Power Limited collects funds from victims through a variety of methods, including the Fast Payment Service (FPS) on WeChat. Victims are instructed to transfer funds to Ace Power Limited, into their account linked to the email address hkaccounts@owtel.com. 
Please see attached a binder which includes a narrative explanation and typology of the money laundering scheme, explanations of the above mentioned legal violations and related evidence. 
We hope that prompt action will be taken to safeguard our financial systems and prevent money laundering.
Sincerely Yours,
Migration Assistance and Research