P.O. Box 50499, Sai Ying Pun Post Office, Hong Kong
Email: info@jemhk.org
To Whom It May Concern:
Re: Case Support For Ms. Ronelly Nohay
This letter is to confirm that Ms. Ronelly Nohay sought advice from Justice for Ethnic Minorities - Hong
Kong (“JEM-HK”). JEM-HK provides assistance to ethnic minorities, including foriegn domestic workers
throughout Hong Kong. In addition to providing assistance we collaborate with members of civil society to
investigate illegal employment agencies and illegal lending companies.
It has come to our attention that Ms. Nohay is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending scheme
under the name Owtel Store ("Owtel"). After significant research, we have concluded that Owtel is
granting loans carrying excessive interest and operating contrary to Hong Kong law. Additionally,
Owtel has failed to produce a valid loan agreement which can prove obligations on the part of Ms. Nohay
and is suspected of using blackmail and fraudulent techniques to coerce victims into payment.
As such, we have assisted Ms. Nohay and other victims of this scheme to file official complaints as is their
legal right, and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities to bring the perpetrators to
justice. We have advised Ms. Nohay not to pay Owtel unless: (1) Owtel provides a valid legal
agreement as required by law, and (2) the relevant government authorities have completed their
investigations on Owtel. Please feel assured that Ms. Nohay is not acting illegally by refusing to make
these payments, and you should not feel pressured by any entity which forces her to pay.
While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of
Owtel is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt. This is a likely attempt to
get the workers fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal complaints
with authorities. Should you receive calls or letters for Ms. Nohay, please ignore them entirely and retain
records as evidence if possible. We have already informed Owtel to cease and desist from further contact,
and that all correspondence with Ms. Nohay should use our office address.
We ask you to fully support Ms. Nohay as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is
granted under law. This case will not affect the work of Ms. Nohay, nor will there be financial costs or time
out of usual work hours. Any correspondence with Ms. Nohay will use our office address. By continuing to
be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal behavior - which is sadly all too common in
Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.
Thank you for all your support. We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your
family. If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free to email us at info@jemhk.org.
Sincerely,
Justice for Ethnic Minorities
List of Owtel’s Suspected Violations of Law
Legal Basis Explanation
Money Lenders
Ordinance (Cap. 163)
○ Owtel has been granting loans at locations which do not belong to a licensed money
lender, hence may be engaging in unlicensed money lending.
○ Owtel has failed to provide a copy of the loan agreement which may be strong
evidence for unreasonable and unconscionable terms.
○ The loans issued by Owtel carry interest rates exceeding 60% per annum, which
constitutes an indictable offence. These loans are not legally enforceable, see below.
Organized and Serious
Crimes Ordinance
(Cap. 455)
○ By dealing or attempting to deal with the proceeds of an indictable offence, Owtel,
banks, money service operators, stored value facilities and other entities may be
liable for money laundering.
Crimes Ordinance
(Cap. 200)
○ Owtel threatens to: disclose personal financial information of victims to third parties,
post photos of victims on social media, falsely claim the police will arrest the victim,
falsely claim that the victim will be deported, prevent the victim from returning to
his/her home country, report the victim to community leaders in the Philippines, etc.
○ Such threats are clearly made to intimidate and alarm the victims, and may constitute
harassment, criminal intimidation, and access to a computer with dishonest or
criminal intent.
Theft Ordinance
(Cap. 210)
○ Owtel has been observed to send victims fake statements of claim or other fake court
documents to harass and coerce victims into making payment.
○ Such conduct and threats of such conduct may constitute blackmail, use of false
instruments, and.or obtaining pecuniary advantage by deception.
Personal Data (Privacy)
Ordinance (Cap. 486)
○ Owtel (and its suspected associates or other Facebook accounts operating under
pseudonyms) have repeatedly disclosed personal information of borrowers without
their consent, including their names, personal identification documents, photographs,
and loan details on Facebook.
○ Owtel threatens to and has in fact contacted employers of victims without the
consent of the employer or the victim. Such misuse of personal information
constitutes unauthorized disclosure and other related offences of the PDPO.
Companies (Disclosure
of Company Name and
Liability Status)
Regulation (Cap. 622B)
○ The affiliate company of Owtel which grants loans fails to display its registered name
in correspondence with victims concerning loans issued.
Other practices which are unfair, abusive, or contrary to public interest:
1. Making harassing phone calls and mobile phone texts which are automatically generated and intended to
cause distress to the victim and the victim’s employer;
2. Verbal abuse and use of derogatory terms in communications with borrowers;
3. Suspected blackmail;
4. Refusal to verify the accuracy of the loan agreements and payments;
5. Making unsubstantiated threats of taking legal actions and engaging collection companies for which
borrowers are responsible for paying.