GENERAL OVERVIEW OF THE CASE 


  





STEP 1: INTERVIEW + EVIDENCE 


Interview
1. Ask the client to fill out the general client intake forms (printed QR codes available in the office) and the Owtel Victim Questionnaire.
   1. You can access their responses here. 
2. Use this questionnaire to complete the narrative. (See samples here and here) This will be useful especially if we want to file a police report since this is a detailed account of the facts.  
3. Interview the client to clarify responses and ascertain further details as needed. 
   1. Money Lender Quick Reference and Narrative Questions - Draft  – this document lists out questions to develop a more detailed narrative.   
4. Ask the client if they have any relevant evidence. Refer to the checklist below. 


Evidence
1. Scan all evidence + HKID
2. If the evidence is in the form of photos, screenshots, etc, ask the client to send all the evidence to the ‘SAFE Hong Kong’ Facebook page.
3. Upload evidence onto the drive folder. Check to see if a client folder already exists for them. If there is none, create a new folder in the format – LAST NAME, First/Middle Name (Facebook name)
4. Compile evidence into a single PDF (exclude HKID) to attach to letters/reports. If there is enough time, consider preparing a detailed document of ‘exhibits’ similar to the ones in the binder. 


Checklist of evidence to collect from victims
See samples in binder and client folders


Evidence regarding loan arrangement

* Receipt showing what items were purchased: usually this would include a 'voucher' and a product (a phone, another gadget or a Dr Smith/other beauty or health product). This indicates the loan principal (but ask follow up questions to make sure they actually received the product/service, etc.) 
* Instalment repayment schedule: adding up all values could help us calculate interest. Usually we would add all additional fees in addition to the stated loan instalments to arrive at the amount repaid/repayable.
* Remittance receipt: sometimes this shows a remittance fee, and if so, include in the narrative. Maybe also ask if their family/friends received the full amount the victim intended to remit (gives us an idea of any other hidden fees).  
* Any mention of Ace Power Limited: this is the licensed moneylender behind the scheme. If the company is identified in any of the victim’s evidence, including correspondences, we have a stronger argument for a loan. 
* Mobile Apps: If no receipts are available, ask if the client has the mobile apps ‘Owtel Installment’ or ‘Owtel Remit’. If yes, ask if you can take screenshots of the various screens/interfaces within the apps. These often contain information about the loan and/or remittance transactions.
	Any loan payments made
* 7-11 Receipts
* Screenshots of payments made using FPS (Alipay, WeChat, TNG)
* Evidence of any direct bank transfers 
* Payment instructions from Owtel staff/representatives/agents
* Messages or instructions by Owtel staff to directly pay to Ace Power Limited (so any instance Ace Power Limited is mentioned) 
* Note whether receipts mention Ace Power Ltd. as the money lender. 
   * If yes, this is convincing evidence for reporting illegal lending. 
   * If no, consider a Companies Registry complaint.
	Harassment and illicit debt collection

* Demand letters: ask which company sent them the demand letter, if they can remember. Note if they mention receiving a letter from or being contacted by Universal Credit Management Services. Universal Credit is dissolved so this shows fraud. 
* Whatsapp messages: any threatening messages, repeated harassment. Note whether from HK or PH number. 
* Screenshots of call logs: inquire how often they receive calls from Owtel. 
   * If the victim is receiving an extremely high number of calls, check if they’re mostly from HK numbers. If so, could consider reporting violation of s.20 Summary Offences Ordinance. 
   * If the calls are from PH numbers, considering a Philippines NPC complaint
* Fake court documents or threats of legal action/consequences 
* Any suspected PDPO violations: Evidence of client’s personal data being shared without consent to third parties (such as with employers or companies in the Philippines; Philippines phone numbers sending messages/calls). 
   *  Ask client if they received a similar link from Owtel: http://mi.owtel.com/qr/xxxxxx
   * If so, ask Ace Power Limited, etc. to remove this information from the URL in a demand letter. Subsequently, file a PDPO Complaint. (see below). 


* Others (refer to original Owtel Binder and Victim Questionnaire to see other examples of harassment) 
	Unlicensed Money Service Operator (“MSO”) branches


* Address of Owtel store branch and whether branch appears on Registry of MSO Licensees: Owtel Store operates several branches, but not all these branches appear to be registered as MSOs in their licence. 
   * If the client used Owtel’s remittance service, take note of the branch they went to. 
   * Then, check if this branch is registered as part of Owtel Money’s licence by conducting a search on the C&ED Database (Search for “Owtel”). 
   * Take note of these facts in the narrative, and put a link to this client’s folder (including the narrative) in this document. 


* Screenshots of the ‘Owtel Remit’ mobile application: 

We suspect that for branches which do not appear on the Registry of Licensees, Owtel staff ask victims to ‘top up’ their Owtel Remit app balance using the ‘voucher’ they purchase. Then, they are directed to complete the remittance transaction on the app. While this seems to be an attempt to evade liability for unregistered MSO branch operation, the collection of money to top up the remittance app may still constitute “arranging the sending of money” and a remittance transaction, and hence operating an MSO. 

   * Ask whether clients experienced anything similar, and if Owtel staff asked the client to download and/or use Owtel Remit at the branch to ‘top up’ and conduct the remittance. 
   * Ask if you can take screenshots of the remittance records, and any record for ‘top up’ from those apps. 
   * Take note of the date on which these transactions were made on the apps, and if these dates match those on the receipts (or the date on which the victim first visited the Owtel Store branch). 

      * Any mention of the client being directed to another Owtel store to conduct the remittance transaction: to ‘top up’ or to conduct the actual sending of money. Take note of what happened, and include details in the narrative. 
	      * Evidence of fake receipts
	



STEP 2: DETERMINE WHAT ACTION TO TAKE


Consider what the client’s main concern is, and decide on a combination of the following possible actions: 
      1. Support Letter: recommended for new clients. 
      2. Cease and desist letter to Owtel: recommended for all new clients. 
      3. Police Report + Narrative & Evidence: recommended where there is clearly excessive interest and unlawful harassment. 
      4. Customs
      1. Crime Report + Narrative: relevant where the client has remitted money 
      2. Unfair Trade Practices and False Trade Descriptions Report + Narrative & Evidence
      5. Privacy concerns 
      1. PDPO 
      1. Data Access Request
      2. PDPO Complaint + Narrative & Evidence
      2. NPC: relevant where the client is receiving messages and calls from Philippines numbers
      1. Demand letter to Katadigital Philippines Inc.
      2. NPC Complaint + Narrative & Evidence
      6. Companies Registry Complaint
      7. Any other suggestions? See the CLIENT MANUAL, TEMPLATES AND SAMPLE COMPLAINTS folder. 
      8. To add
      1. Philippines police report
      2. PH - other complaints? BIR, AMLC - tax evasion, money laundering
      3. Apple/Google 
      4. TCSP complaints against Wale’x
      5. Reporting the new bank account (Owtel Limited) - FPS ID
________________
STEP 3: DRAFT CORRESPONDENCE, COMPLAINTS AND LETTERS 


(1) CEASE AND DESIST / DEMAND LETTERS
	

      1. Sample letters may be found here. 
      2. Send these via post, and make copies for us and the client.


(2) POLICE REPORTS/CORRESPONDENCE
	

Template for content of police report (e-report filed online) 
(delete/modify as appropriate) 


Note: Be careful with reporting harassment from PH numbers/entities since police might just disregard the whole complaint saying this is not under their jurisdiction. It is suggested that we file harassment/debt collection related complaints where wrongdoing in HK is clear. 


      1. Complete the e-report form online
      2. Attach narrative and evidence 


I am a victim of Owtel, and I am submitting this e-report to provide information about the suspected unlawful conduct of Ace Power Limited, Owtel Money (Hong Kong) Limited, Dr Smith Health Products Limited, Owtel Ltd and others (“Owtel entities”).


By way of background, I applied for an instalment plan at Owtel Store for the purchase of phones, Dr Smith Health products and remittance worth HK$[xxx]. I was asked to repay my loan instalments directly to Ace Power Limited, a licensed money lender which grants loans under the name of Owtel. I was asked to repay a total of HK$[xxx] by way of [x] instalments. I was also charged a downpayment of HK$[xx]. I was told that any late payment would be subject to a late fee of HK$10/day. I was never provided a loan agreement, and nor were the terms of the loan such as the interest rate ever explained to me. However, calculating for simple interest shows that Ace Power Limited charged me an annual interest rate of [x]%, which exceeds 60%.


As a summary, it is suspected that Owtel entities have engaged in the following activities and
Offences:


      1. Granting of loans with annual interest exceeding 60% by Ace Power Limited in violation of s.24(4) of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163);
      2. Imposing application fees, down payment and late payment fees on loans without giving any valid legal justification, in violation of ss.27(1) and 22 of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163);
      3. Failure to furnish a valid loan agreement within 7 days of borrowers signing it, and failure to explain the terms of the loan such as annual interest rate to borrowers, in violation of s.18 of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163);
      4. Falsifying invoices and receipts, constituting fraud (s.16A, Theft Ordinance) and using a false instrument (s.73, Crimes Ordinance); 
      5. Ace Power Limited, Owtel entities and its staff and representatives have also engaged in several aggressive debt collection activities in an effort to coerce me to repay the loan instalments.
      6. Money laundering by knowingly dealing in the proceeds of an indictable offence in violation of s.25(1) of the Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance. Owtel entities in Hong Kong and overseas (in the Philippines, Cayman Islands, British Virgin Islands, Macau, Taiwan and Singapore are suspected of being involved).


Please see the attached narrative for a detailed account of these suspected violations. Relevant evidence, including receipts and screenshots have also been attached to the narrative for your reference.


I would be happy to answer any further questions in person in the presence of a Tagalog interpreter on my day off, [xxx].


	

Email template: if police follows up and asks for more details
Delete sections as appropriate


      1. If they have already reached out to the Police, and want help with follow-up, extract relevant parts from the previous police report and/or narrative to answer any specific questions or provide further details. 
      2. Also provide any suitable times for an in-person statement + request a Tagalog interpreter


An example response would look like the following: 


Dear [name of police officer],  


I am a victim of Owtel, and I am following up in response to your WhatsApp message for more information regarding Ace Power Limited, Owtel Money (Hong Kong) Limited, [Dr Smith Health Products Limited], Owtel Ltd. 


I suspect that Ace Power Limited (acting as Owtel), a licensed money lender, has charged me excessive interest. I received HK$[cost of product + remittance] from Ace Power Limited for the purchase of [describe goods/service purchased]. I was asked to repay Ace Power Limited a total amount of HK$[sum of all instalments] as loan instalments over [x] months. Calculating for the simple interest rate shows that I was charged an annual interest rate of [x]%. This exceeds the legally allowed minimum of 60% in violation of section 24(4) of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163).


At the time of application, was also required to pay an application processing fee of HK$[x] and downpayment of HK$[x], which I suspect is likely to be a violation of section 27(1) of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163). I was also told that I would have to pay a fee of HKD10/day for late payment, which I suspect is a violation of section 22(1)(c) of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163). No justification has been provided to me at any point regarding the application processing fee, downpayment and the late fee. 


I have also never been provided with a copy of a valid loan agreement, which I suspected is a violation of section 18 of the Money Lenders Ordinance (Cap. 163). No explanation was given regarding the terms of the loan at any point. 


Ace Power Limited, Owtel and its staff and representatives have also engaged in several aggressive debt collection activities in an effort to coerce me to repay the loan instalments. Their conduct, I suspect, would constitute a number of offences, including fraud, forgery, using a false instrument and criminal intimidation. Please see the attached narrative for a detailed account of these suspected violations. Relevant evidence, including receipts and screenshots have also been attached to the narrative for your reference. 


I would be happy to answer any further questions in person in the presence of a Tagalog interpreter on my day off, [day]. 


Thank you! 


Kind regards,
[Name of victim]
	

Sample response if police asks them to pay Owtel: 


Thank you for reaching out. 


As per my prior explanation, I strongly suspect that Ace Power Limited, a licensed money lender giving out loans under the name of Owtel, has charged me excessive interest contrary to section 24(4) of the MLO. Consequently I also strongly suspect that Ace Power Limited and other Owtel related entities have been knowingly dealing with proceeds of an indictable offence contrary to s.25(1) of the Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance. As such, if Owtel nevertheless wishes to pursue any alleged debt or payment, it may pursue a civil claim. 


Owtel, by way of this illegal lending and remittance syndicate, exploits, threatens and harasses thousands of migrant domestic workers globally. In fact, Owtel entities have been reported to operate a similar scheme in Singapore, and Singapore Police’s Money Lending Unit have taken proactive and prompt action to shut down the illegal lending and remittance syndicate. I would hope that authorities in Hong Kong would do the same to safeguard Hong Kong’s status as a global financial hub. There are hundreds of other known victims in Hong Kong alone, and I would strongly suggest that the Hong Kong Police fully investigates the illegal lending, money laundering and other unlawful activities undertaken by Owtel entities. 
	

(3) CUSTOMS & EXCISE COMPLAINTS
	

General Crime Report for remittance related complaints


      1. Fill out the CRIME REPORT form. Content of the complaint(s): 
Complaint about Owtel Remit App 


I went to Owtel Store, operated by Owtel Money (Hong Kong) Limited at [address] to remit money. As part of the process, the staff asked me to download the ‘Owtel Remit’ mobile application on my phone. The staff then used this app to complete the remittance transaction and send the money to the Philippines. I later discovered that s.33 of Cap. 615 requires MSOs operating remittance services on mobile applications to provide a correspondence address of a local management office. Upon searching Owtel Money Hong Kong Limited on the Register of MSO Licensees, I discovered that Owtel Money has not provided any correspondence address for this mobile application. Such conduct, I suspect, violates s.52 of Cap. 615 which makes it an offence to omit any material information in a licence application. 
	

Complaint about Unregistered MSO Branch


I remitted money at the Owtel Store at [address]. I later discovered that the remittance service was provided by Owtel Money (Hong Kong) Limited. However, upon searching the Register of MSOs Licensees, I discovered that this Owtel Store branch is not registered under Owtel Money’s MSO licence. I believe that Owtel Money providing a remittance service at this branch would constitute operating a remittance service at premises other than those specified in the application for an MSO license, contrary to s.38(1) of Cap. 615.  
	

      2. Send this form via the client’s email to crimereport@customs.gov.hk, attach (1) the form and (2) narrative + evidence, 
      3. Send the form via post. 


Complaint for Unfair Trade Practices and False Trade Descriptions 


For TDO violations: Customs and Excise Department Report Form for Unfair Trade Practices and False Trade Descriptions 


Trade Descriptions Ordinance (Cap. 362)


      1. Misleading omissions
      1. Omitting name of underlying corporate entities (as required under CO), omitting details of how personal data will be processed (as required under ML Licensing Conditions and PDPO), etc. 
      2. This is all material information under Section 13E(b)(ii), which states that material information includes any information required in relation to a commercial communication under any other enactment. 
      3. Section 13E(1): a trader who engages in relation to a consumer in a commercial practice that is a misleading omission commits an offence. 
      4. Section 13E(2): a commercial practice is a misleading omission if, in its factual context, taking account of the matters in subsection (3) – 
      1. It omits material information; 
      2. It hides material information 
      3. It provides material information in a manner that is unclear, unintelligible, ambiguous or untimely; or
      4. It fails to identify its commercial intent, unless this is already apparent from the context,
And as a result it causes, or is likely to cause, the average consumer to make a transactional decision that the consumer would not have made otherwise. 




(4) PRIVACY CONCERNS
	

PDPO Complaint

Data Access Request
      1. Print and fill out the relevant form from this folder containing PDPO request templates.
      2. Attach a cover letter (can use the demand letter and modify to include a request to comply with the DAR)
      3. Send via post to the relevant entity. 


PDPO Complaint
      1. Where a data access request has already been made and Owtel has failed to comply, file a PDPO Complaint. 
      2. Fill out the complaint form.
      3. Content of the complaint: 
      1. Failure to comply with data access request
      2. Other violations outlined here: PDPO Complaint Templates for Money Lenders. 
      4. Attach the client’s HKID and any evidence to support the complaint.  
        
Sample list of PDPO violations to attach to the complaint form 


By way of background, I applied for an instalment plan from Ace Power Limited at Owtel Store. (See Exhibit [attach exhibits], below) Ace Power Limited is a licensed money lender which operates under the name of Owtel and at Owtel Stores across Hong Kong. I was asked to repay my instalments to Ace Power Limited. In relation to the said instalment arrangement, I would like to make the following complaints regarding Ace Power Limited:

      1. I made a data access request with Ace Power Limited on [date]. (Please see [attach copy of DAR + envelope it was sent in], below). Ace Power Limited failed to respond to the said Data Access Request within 40 calendar days of receiving the request. Ace Power Limited never contacted me regarding the said request, and as such never supplied me with copies of the Requested Data or an explanation in the event that it did not hold the Requested Data. 

      2. At no point was I informed by Ace Power Limited, or any of its staff, agents or representatives inform me whether it was obligatory or voluntary for me to supply the data. I was also never informed of the persons or entities to whom my data may be transferred. It seems that my personal data, including my phone number and financial information have been shared with third parties in the Philippines without my consent. (See Exhibits [attach exhibit], below) This, I suspect, would be a violation of Data Protection Principle 1 under Schedule 1 to the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486). 

      3. Ace Power Limited stores my personal and financial information on a webpage, http://mi.owtel.com/qr/xxxxxx [ask client if they received a similar link from Owtel], which is publicly accessible. (See Exhibits [attach exhibit], below) There seem to be no security measures taken to limit access to this webpage, and anyone with this URL can access my personal and financial information as stored and used by Ace Power Limited on this webpage. 

This raises questions about the adequacy of Ace Power Limited’s measures taken to protect the personal data of their customers. It seems that they have failed to take all practicable steps to protect my personal data they hold against unauthorised or accidental access, processing or use, since my data can be accessed by anyone. This is especially concerning the sensitive nature of the information that Ace Power Limited possesses with regard to my instalment application. This, I suspect, would be a violation of Data Protection 4 under Schedule 1 to the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486). 
	



NPC Complaint


         1. Have the client sign this cease and desist letter (modify the contents as appropriate).
         2. If the client has already sent this letter and there has been no action, file an NPC Complaint.
         1. Fill out the form available on the NPC website.
         2. Ask the client to visit the Philippines Consulate General Hong Kong’s ATN Section in person to have the complaint notarized. [to add - request for free notarization]
         3. Once the complaint has been notarized, attach exhibits and submit the complaint to the NPC. 


(5) COMPANIES REGISTRY COMPLAINTS
	

         1. Companies Ordinance complaints submitted to the Companies Registry pertain to Ace Power Limited and Owtel Money (Hong Kong) Limited’s failure to disclose company name and liability status as required under the Companies Ordinance. See a full analysis of the legal requirements here. 
         2. As such, if demand letters, receipts, etc demonstrate these deficiencies (in most cases they do), consider filing a quick complaint with the Companies Registry.
         3. Fill out this form. See samples here. 
         4. Attach copies of receipts and demand letters showing violations. 
         5. Send the complaint via post to Companies Registry. 










STEP 4: DEBRIEF


         1. Give a photocopy of any letters/complaints to the client. Explain to the clients the purpose of the document/action taken. 
         2. Upload a scanned copy of the document (+ addressed envelope with a stamp, if relevant) to the relevant client folder, and a copy in client letters as appropriate.
         3. Follow up if needed, for instance if a police report is filed as the Police may reach out to the client. Ask the client to contact SAFE Hong Kong in case they hear back from the police/other institution or entity.