P.O. Box 50499, Sai Ying Pun Post Office, Hong Kong
Email: info@jemhk.org
To Whom It May Concern:
Case Support For Ms. Angelica Palaruan
This letter is to confirm that Ms. Angelica Palaruan sought advice from Justice for Ethnic Minorities - Hong
Kong (“JEM-HK”). JEM-HK provides assistance to ethnic minorities, including foriegn domestic workers
throughout Hong Kong. In addition to providing assistance we collaborate with members of civil society to
investigate illegal employment agencies and illegal lending companies.
It has come to our attention that Ms. Palaruan is a victim of a potentially illegal and unethical lending
company Pacific Ace Finance Limited and their affiliates (“Pacific Ace”). In this case, Pacific Ace has
reportedly engaged in illicit behavior, including but not limited to harassment, the unauthorized disclosure of
personal, and operation of an unlicensed savings account.
As such, we have assisted Ms. Palaruan and other victims to file official complaints as is their legal right,
and we are in communications with law enforcement authorities to bring the perpetrators to justice. We
have informed Ms. Palaruan of potential concerns regarding the activity of Pacific Ace and provided
her with information on how to report suspected violations of relevant laws. For example, Pacific
Ace has disclosed personal information to employers without consent in what appears to be a clear
violation of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance. Please feel assured that Ms. Palaruan is not acting
illegally by pursuing her legal rights, and you should not feel pressured by any entity which forces her to
pay.
While this case should not affect you or your family in any way, we have observed that a common tactic of
Pacific Ace is to threaten to inform employers that the domestic worker is under debt. This is a likely
attempt to get the workers fired so that they have to leave Hong Kong and do not have time to file formal
complaints with authorities. Should you receive calls or demand letters for Ms. Palaruan, please ignore
them entirely and retain records as evidence if possible. We have already informed Pacific Ace to cease
and desist from further contact. It is our understanding that law enforcement authorities are actively
investigating Pacific Ace and therefore we find it highly unlikely that they would cause any
inconvenience beyond mere messages and calls.
We ask you to fully support Ms. Palaruan as she works with the authorities and receives the rights she is
granted under law. This case will not affect the work of Ms. Palaruan, nor will there be financial costs or
time out of usual work hours. Any correspondence with Ms. Palaruan will use our office address. By
continuing to be a supportive employer, we can ensure that this type of illegal behavior - which is sadly all
too common in Hong Kong - is eliminated forever.
Thank you for all your support. We are very sorry for any inconveniences this causes to you and your
family. If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free to email us at info@jemhk.org.
Sincerely,
Justice for Ethnic Minorities