2 July 2O21   
. ItrELCHOR_*8,-trIZON 
Labor Attache ll 
Philippine Overseas Labor Office (POLO) 
29A2?gtF, United Centre, 95 Queensway, Admiralty 
Hong Kong 
info@polo-hk.com 
Dear Labatt Dizon: 
Good day. This has reference to the recruitment violation case motu proprio initiated by the Administration against Philco Human Resource Services Corporation docketed as POEA CASE No. RV 21-02-A1u46 entitled, "ln Re Proceedings vs. Philco Human Resource Servfces Corporatiori"for alleged violation of Section 143 l. (h), Il. (n) and (o), Rule Ill, Part Vl of the Revised POEA Rules and Regulations Governing the Recruitment and Employment of Land based Filipino Overseas Workers of 2016. 
The aforementioned case stemmed from the indorsement sent by your office of the sworn statements of several OFWs including herein workers: (1) Missy Leah A. Toriano and Ruby Ann $olano, who were both deployed by Philco Human Resource Seryices Corp. to their respective employers. 
The above-named workers are still at the jobsite and they manifested thru e-mail communication that they want to submit their testimonies and documents regarding this case. ln order to aid us in making a judicious evaluation and disposition of the above administrative case and in the interest 6f due process, we Wiil send wiitten interrogatories to be answered by the complaining workers on site. 
Relative thereto, may we respectfully request your assistance in securing the statement of the two above-named workers through the attached Written lnterrogatories containing specific questions relative to the case. Likewise, we would also like to request for their comments on the respondent agency's Answer within Fifteen (15) days from receipt thereof. Enclosed are copies of the Answer and other related documents, for your reference. 
Your prompt response on our request would be highly appreciated. 
Very truly 
ATTY. 
, Adjudication 
s
-
: 
WRITTEN INTERROGATORIES 
(pursuant to Department Order No. 87-08, Series of 2008 issued by the Department of Labor and Employment) 
NAME 
(SURNAME) 
DATE OF BIRTH: 
SEX: 
NAME OF EMPLOYER 
NAME OF DEPLOYING AGENCY: JOB POSITION 
CONTACT NO: 
ADDRESS: 
{Philippines) 
(Jobsite) 
(NAME) {M.t.) AGE:
GIVIL STATUS: 
{Nate: The charge against the respondent agency, Philco Human Resource Seryices Co. is for affeged viotation of Section 143 fi, th), {n) and {a) of Rute irr, P-att Vt of the Revised POEA Rules and Regulations Governing the Recruitment and Emptoyment of Land-based Oyerseas Filipino Workers of 2016.   
1. !1/hen did you apply with Philco Human Resource Services Co"? (Kailan ka nag apply sa Philco Human Resources Seruices Co.?) 
2. Where did you apply? (Saan ka nag apply?) 
3. Wilat workfposltion did you apply for and where is the supposed iobsite? (Anong trabahoiposisyon ang inaplayan mo at para saang bansa?) 
4. What are the requirements given by the recruitment agency Philco Human Resource Services Co. fior you to cemply? {Anong mga requirements and hiningi sa iyo ng ahensya mo na kailangan mo ipasa?) 
\   
i 
WRITTEN I NTERROGATORIES 
POEA CASE No" RV 2142-A145 
Page 2 of 4 
5- What are the documents you submitted to Philco Hun'lan Resource Services Go", if there is any? (Anong mga dokumento ang ipinasa mo sa ahensya mo, kung meron man?) 
6. Did you mndergo ithe nequired TESDA Dormestic Wonk {NC Nil) Traimimg (NCIN)? (lkaw ba ay nag training sa TESDA para sa Domestic Work (NC ll)? 
7. lf yes, what training? (Kung s, anong training?i 8. whCI pay fsr ttw tral*ing fee? {sino aftg nagbayad para $a training?} g. How much is the training fee, if there is any? (Magkano ang training fee, kung meron?) 
10. ltri/hen and where was the training fee paid? (Kailan at saan binayaran ang training 11. lAlho received the payment? (Sino ang tumanggap ng bayad?) 
12. What is the name of the training center and where is the training taken? (Ano ang pangalan ng training center at saan mo kinuha ang training?) 
13. How did you find out ahout training center?)the training center? (Paano mo nalaman ang tungkol sa 
14. Were you required to have another training other than the TESDA NCll Training? lf yes, what training center and what ruas the training for? (lkaw ba ay ni require na magkaroon ng karagdagang tnaiming bukod sa TESDA NCll Traiming? Kung oCI, anong training center at para saan ang karagdagang training? 
15. Who paid for the training fee and how karagdagang trainingmuch is the tee? (Sino arig nagbayad sa at magkano?i 
16. Are you allowed to take the trainings from other TESDA arcredited training centers or only from the specifically designated training center given by the recruitment agency, Philco Human Resource Services Co. if there is any? (Pinapayagan ka ba na kunin ang nasabing training mula sa ibang training center o doon ka training $a training center nalamang maaaring mag ibinigay ng 
17. Did you sign an employment contract? May pinirmahan ka ba na kontrata?) 18. lf yes, when and where? (Kung metron, kalian at saan ka 
19. \f\fffi is trabaho 
the work positionijob tttte written in the employrnent contract? (Ano ang na nakasulat sa kontrata?)
I  
1 
WRITTEN If{TERROGATORIES 
POEA CASE No. RVz,I-02-0T45 
Page 3 of 4 
x-------------- ----------x 
20. Who is the employer written in the employment contract? (Sino ang employer na nakasulat sa 
21. What is the monthly salary indicated therein? (Magkano ang buwanang sweldo na nakasulat sa kontrata?) 
22. What ane the fees thalt Fil'lilco Hunman Resounce Seruices Co. required or demanded fnorm you to pay in comnection with you,lr applliaat[om, f[ ttFnene frs amy? (Ano-amo arng rnga 
bayarin na sinabi sa iyo ng ahenaya na lqitranEan rnong hayanan kaugnay ng pag aaply mo? 
23. ls there any placernent fee demanded fronn you to pay by Phitreo Human Resource S,ervioes Co.? ($Sayroon bang placenme'mt fee na h,im{mgn sa {yo ang ahensya na kailangan mong bayaran?) 
24. ll yes, horrv much? (Kung meron man, magkano?) 25" Did you pay for the pilac*rnent fee? (Efrnayaran mo ha ang piacernrent fee?) 
26. lf yes, who receive yorlr payment? (Kung binayaran mo, sino ang tumanggap ng bayad rno?i 
27. How much did you pay? (Magkano ang ibinayad mo?) 28. When and where did you pay? {Kailan at saan ka nagbayad?} 
29. ls there any receipt issued for the payment you rnade? (Mayroon hang ihinigay na resibo sa iyo para sa binayad mo?) _ 
30. Apart from the employment contract, are there any documents given for you to sign prior to deployrnent? {Maliban sa ernployment contract, meron pa bang ibang 
dokumentc na ibinigay sa iyo ang ahensya at pinapirmahan bago ka umalis?) 
31. lf yes, what lcind of document? (Kung mayroon, anong klasenE dokumento iyon?) 
32. Who made ycu to sign the document, if there is any? {Sino ang nagpapirma sa iyo ng dokumento, kung mayroon man?) 
33. t/Vhen were you deployed? {Kailan ka nakaalis ng bansa?} 
q 
34. Upon anival in Hong Kong, what is the narne of your employer where you were deployed? (Pagdating mo sa Hong Kong, sino ang naging employer mo?) 35. What is the work given to you? (Anong trabaho ang ibinigay sa iyo?) 36. How much did you reoeive nromthly fon your salary? {hfiaglkamo ang tlmatanggap ffron a buwanang sweldo?) 
37. Are there any deductions made from your salary? {Mayroon bang ibinawas sa sweldo mo?) 
38. lf yes, how much? (Kung mayroon rnan, magkano iyon?)
I   
:\ 
,,i 
SURITTEN INTERROGATOFIIES 
FOEA CASE f'{o. RV 21-02-CIX45 
Page 4 of4 x-.:*-..-"- ---:-*-x 
39. What are the deductions made from your salary? Ano ang nasabing deduction o bawas sa sweldo mo?) 
40. How many months is your salary deducted? (llang buwan binawasan o kinaltasan ang sweldo mo? 
41" What is the dedudiom for? {Fana saan ang nasab[ng deductiora o kafrtas sa $mreldo mo?) 
42. Do yor."r receti executing an Afrldavtt dated CI3 January 2CI21 hdone Consul Faulo V. Saret, Consurlar Sectlon otthe Office otthe Ennbassy of the Republia of the Philippines ln h{ong KonglPlhilippirne Ovemeas Lahon Office {FOLfr} Hor,rg Kong? {Natatandaan nino pa ha kunE rnay ginawa kang slnumpaans satraysay sa FOLO-Hong Kong noong Januany 3, 2S?1? 
43. lf yes, do you affinm the tnuthfulmess of the contents amd drue executtlom o[ eaid Affidavit? (Kung oo, pinatutunayanlpinatototohanan rno ba natotoo lahat ng nakasulat sa nasahimg salaysay?) 
44. Do you have addlritlomail statemremts retatfrve to thr's case? You may unse addftlonatrsheet of paper, lf neaessary. (Mayroon lea pa hang leanagdagan salaysay na gusto sahihirr kaugnay ng kaso mo, maaari kang gumamit ng karagdagan papel para dito kung kinakailangan.) 
45. State and attach the additional docurnents that you would like to submit as your evidemce to surpport youn clairn again"rst the respondent agency, if there is any? {Ano anE rxnga karagdagan do[ru.rmemto na gusto nxong [pasa ma n'rakakapagpaila[ras mg [<aso 
laban sa ahensya na Phjlco Human Resource Serujces 
mo 
Co. 
Affiant 
) s.s. 
SUBSCRIBED ANID S\MORFI to hefore rme, thls day of2021, complainant showil'lE her Philippine Passport No. at 
issued on