Privileged and Confidential
Without Prejudice


First Quarter of 2021
 EXTREMELY URGENT


(Via Post and Electronic Mail)
Presidential Complaint Center
Bahay Ugnayan, J.P. Laurel Street Malacañang
Manila, The Philippines
pcc@malacanang.gov.ph 
	Securities and Exchange Commision
Secretariat Building, PICC Complex Roxas Boulevard, Metro Manila, The Philippines
imessagemo@sec.gov.ph & cgfd_md@sec.gov.ph
	Anti-Money Laundering Council
5/F EDPC Building. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Complex. Mabini corner Vito Cruz Streets, Malate.1004 The Philippines
secretariat@amlc.gov.ph 
	National Bureau of Investigations
NBI Building, Taft Avenue
Ermita, Manila, The Philippines
director@nbi.gov.ph, crd@nbi.gov.ph, aocd@nbi.gov.ph, interpol_fld@nbi.gov.ph, & ahtrad@nbi.gov.ph 
	National Privacy Commission
5th Floor Delegation Building, PICC Complex, Roxas Boulevard, Metro Manila, The Philippines
complaints@privacy.gov.ph 
	Office of the Ombudsman
Ombudsman Building, Agham Road, North Triangle Diliman, Quezon City 1101, The Philippines
pab@ombudsman.gov.ph 
	Presidential Anti-Corruption Commission
G/F Floor, Palacio del Gobernador Condominium Corporation, Gen. Luna St., cor. A. Soriano St., Intramuros Manila, Philippines
complaints@pacc.gov.ph 
	Atty. Ryan L. Estevez
Undersecretary
Presidential Legislative Liaison Office
Malacanang Office, 2nd Floor, Annex, NEB
ryan.estevez@pllo.gov.ph & attyrlestevez@gmail.com 
	Philippines Consulate General in Hong Kong SAR
14/F United Centre 95 Queensway
Admiralty, Hong Kong SAR
hongkong.pcg@dfa.gov.ph 
	Department of Foriegn Affairs
2330 Roxas Boulevard, Pasay City
The Philippines
osec@dfa.gov.ph 
	

c.c. Financial Action Task Force (Groupe d'action financière)
2, rue André Pascal
75775 Paris Cedex 16 France
ExecutiveSecretary@fatf-gafi.org
	

	

RE: SHORT SUMMARIES OF OBSERVED AML/CFT DEFICIENCIES OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 2019 TO 2021


Dear Sirs / Madams:


Introduction

The following information is being urgently reported to your attention. Because there is ongoing doubt about the ability of the Republic of the Philippines (“Philippines”) to enforce appropriate AML/CFT standards, we have provided a short list of observed deficiencies for your prompt review. These deficiencies have be categorized into six sections, namely AML/CFT deficiencies related to: (i) Human Trafficking; (ii) Money Lending; (iii) Business Process Outsourcing; (iv) Financial Industry Facilitation; and (v) Judicial Shorcomings;

Sincerely Yours,
Filipino Migrant Workers Against Financial Crimes
Part 1: Human Trafficking

The following cases are short summaries of money laundering schemes that relate to and/or derive from human trafficking activities:

(i) CASH4U Financing Corporation, Et al:
The Philippines has also allowed CASH4U Financing Corporation (“CASH4U”) to finance loans for illegal placement fees and has failed to take any action against CASH4U and its management despite the fact that Hong Kong SAR arrested their affiliates and froze millions of dollars in assets.[1] Over 100 complaints were filed against CASH4U and the Philippines have effectively done nothing.

CASH4U continues to engage in deception, illegal lending, money laundering, and fraud in order to collect loans granted to finance illegal placement fees. The staff of CASH4U conspired with many employment agencies to commit unlawful acts and deal in the proceeds of unlawful activities, as defined by Republic Act No. 9160, as amended, in connection with serious and frequent violations of Republic Act No. 8042, as amended. 
The Philippines has allowed HOYA Lending Investor Corporation, Ceazar Pacific Money Lending Co. Ltd. Nittan Capital Finance Inc, Baguio Benguet International Recruitment Agency Inc, and other lenders to engage in similar schemes whereby agencies and money lenders conspire to violate Republic Act No. 8042, as amended, and subsequently deal in the proceeds of those crimes. These proceeds are often sent to and from the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong SAR, and other jurisdictions in an effort to launder the proceeds being handled by these international syndicates. In many of these cases, the shareholders of the lending companies will also be the shareholders of the overseas or local employment agencies.

(ii) 123 Finance Corporation, Et al:

Similarly, despite 100’s of complaints, the Philippines has allowed 123 Finance Corporation (“123”) to engage in a similar conspiracy with a variety of employment agencies. However, the operations of 123 are even more egregious because 123 conspires with various Philippines banks in order to unlawfully take control over a bank account and bank checks. In collaboration with these banks, 123 seizes control over bank accounts and bank checks issued to migrant workers and will often conduct such activities by hosting unlicensed banking branches within the office of 123. Worse, 123 will fraudulently control the bank account and bank checks of the migrant workers in order to black mail them into making payments. It is very common for 123 to bluntly threaten migrant workers that they will get arrested because 123 staff will forge information on the bank check and purposefully fabricate a sham “bounced check” case against the migrant worker. 123 has been observed to prioritize such sham cases against migrant workers who exercise their rights to complain or seek assistance with illicit lending operations or unlawful employment agency-lender operations.

The Philippines has allowed Prosperity & Success Lending Investor Corporation; PJH Lending Corporation; OLM Financing Corporation; Zazu Lending Investor Corporation; Global Dominion Financing Inc; Multi-Rich Lending Corporation; First Digital Finance Corporation; Sparkle Base Financing Corporation and many other lending companies to engage in similar unlawful syndicates involving numerous predicate offenses, unlawful confiscation and use of bank checks, violations of Republic Act No. 8042, as amended, and a significant number of unlicensed bank branches.


(iii) A & W International Manpower Services Specialist, Et al:


The Philippines has allowed a number of very powerful families or “circle of friends” collude to own and control employment agencies, medical clinics, training centers, and lending companies that all conspire in order to commit predicate offenses and launder the money through a variety of entities to lawyer the crime proceeds. For example, the individuals operating A & W International Manpower Services Specialist (“A&W”) also control and operate Right Med Diagnostic Center, Right Focus Training Center, Inc., Prosperity and Success Lending Investor Corporation, PJH Lending Corporation, Starlight Review Center, Destiny Twin Dragon Workforce Co Ltd, and other companies. A&W will unlawfully require migrant workers to pay for training, enhancement training, and medical tests at exclusive companies that are owned and controlled by the same individuals who own and control A&W. Moreover, migrant workers are required to obtain loans from exclusive lending companies, namely Prosperity and Success Lending Investor Corporation and PJH Lending Corporation which provide financing for the unlawful fees and unlawful activities of A&W and their affiliates.

Numerous other employment agencies and employment agency owners or managers operate similar schemes whereby they charge unlawful fees and reap in the proceeds of unlawful activities by directing migrant workers to pay illegal payments to various exclusive partner companies. In fact, according to complaint records, migrant workers have reported similar schemes involving Angelex Allied Agency, Placewell International Services Corporation, Studio 85 Promotions Inc, Philco Human Resource Services Corp., Medlink International Resourcing Incorporated, Gerdin International Manpower Inc, and other agencies. Despite such overwhelming complaints and evidence verified by numerous independent parties, the Philippines has not even warned the complaint subjects of their reported illicit behavior.


(iv) Immigration Sex Worker Scheme

It is well reported and documents that hundreds of migrant workers will bypass immigration controls by exploiting agency loop-holes, corrupt/complacent immigration officers, and other illicit activities. For example, agencies such as Yan Yee Employment & Trading, Reliable Recruitment, and Williams Production (H.K.) Limited are known to engage in schemes whereby undocumented migrant workers are instructed to wear a red dress while passing through immigration controls, and certain supervising officers of the Immigration Bureau will recognize the red dress during certain departure times and allow them to exit the country without having the appropriate documentation.


________________


Part 2: Illicit Money Lending


The following cases are short summaries of money laundering schemes that relate to and/or derive from illicit money lending activities:

(i) FamilyHan Credit Corporation


Over 2,000 complaints have been submitted against FamilyHan Credit Corporation (“FCC”) for serious crimes including money laundering, organized and serious crime, triad related crimes, fraud/estafa, blackmail, criminal intimidation, unlicensed lending, etc. Despite these complaints, the Philippines initially discouraged individuals from complaining and it took over 20,000 pages of evidence, thousands of complainants, and over 2,000 formally submitted complaints to the Philippines Consulate General in Hong Kong, Securities and Exchange Commission, Anti-Money Laundering Council, and other authorities.

Despite overwhelming evidence - including banks and legal experts confirming the activities of FCC meet the characteristics of a money laundering scheme, the Philippines has failed to take action. Worse, the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission has accepted, endorsed, and approved fraudulent information submitted by FCC during the registration and maintenance of their company and lending license.


(ii) RoboCash Philippines Financing Corp


The Philippines has failed to conduct even cursory background checks on the operations, ownership, and documented money laundering activities of RoboCash Philippines Finance Corp (“RoboCash”) and has allowed RoboCash to continue engaging in illicit activities despite having its license cancelled.

For illustrative purposes, while the Philippines has effectively granted RoboCash a leise faire operating license, the Hong Kong SAR authorities have taken prompt action to block the accounts used by RoboCash, investigate the perpetrators, and trace crime proceeds through hundreds of virtual wallets in order to freeze funds and deter criminals by blocking their chances of receiving any financial rewards, regardless of whether the ultimate beneficiary of these crime proceeds were in Hong Kong SAR or outside of Hong Kong SAR. The Philippines has thus far failed to prevent the criminals from dealing in, importing, and exporting crime proceeds and clearly illegitimate funds.

Perhaps due to similar impropriety, the Philippines also allowed FCash Global Lending, Inc. to continue to engage in clearly unlawful lending and collection activities despite having their license revoked. The actions of the Philippines has manifested to any would-be criminal that even if enforcement action is taken, it is not to be taken seriously and bad actors are free to operate without a license, operate in the shadows, or simply create a new entity and receive the appropriate license granted to a new entity. The lack of personal criminal liability, arrests, and real deterrent (fines and jail time) has given rise to both local and international criminal lending syndicates that use the Philippines as the headquarters of their illegal operations.








(iii) Approval of Non-Compliant Businesses


The Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission has allowed numerous lending companies and finance companies to continue to operate, without restriction, despite these companies conceding that they are required to abide by AML/CFT rules, yet the company is not in compliance with such rules. For example, within the General Information Sheet filings of Prosperity & Success Lending Investor Corporation, Multi-Rich Lending Corporation, and many others, it is confirmed by the company officers that they are not in compliance with the law.  Unbelievably, despite the companies conceding that they are not following the law, the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission has granted them continued licenses, free ability to operate without restriction, and no additional due diligence or review has occurred.


As a result, these companies have been able to engage in significant money laundering activities with the tacit or direct approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission.


(iv) Ubiquitous Black Mail and Criminal Intimidation


The Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission has allowed innumerable lending companies to engage in black mail, criminal intimidation, and other illicit collection tactics - including threats to person, property, and reputation.

Despite thousands of complainants bringing this to the attention of the authorities, very little material action has been taken, and on numerous occasions the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission has told complainants that they must pay lenders even if law enforcement in other jurisdictions informs borrowers that they should cease payments so as to avoid supporting illegal criminal syndicates.


Part 3: Criminal Business Process Operations

The following cases are short summaries of money laundering schemes that relate to and/or derive from prohibited business process outsourcing activities:


(i) KataDigital Philippines, Inc.

The Philippines hosts the business process outsourcing office for “Owtel” branded companies which have retail locations in Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, Macau, and Singapore. The staff, working on behalf of Owtel, and physically located in the Philippines, are instructed by Owtel to blackmail, harass, manipulate, and send fraudulent court notices (with threats of jail) to migrant workers in Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, Macau, and Singapore. The authorities in these jurisdictions have confirmed that the collection activities being committed by Owtel staff in the Philippines constitute substantial crimes, however, no action has been taken to hold the perpetrators accountable. As a result, numerous companies, syndicates, and criminal enterprises have outsourced their illegal collection, communication, and blackmail operations to the Philippines in order to commit online crimes for profit without consequence. By failing to take action the Philippines has effectively provided a jurisdictional shield that allows multi-national syndicates to commit crimes, facilitate crimes, and deal in the proceeds of such crimes. 

(ii)  Kabayan Financing Corporation, Et Al

The Philippines has allowed a decentralized network of unlicensed and unlawful loan sharks to operate from the Philippines. These lenders grant illegal loans to migrant workers in overseas jurisdictions such as Singapore, Taiwan, and Hong Kong SAR. In order to avoid being held liable for excessive interest lending in the jurisdiction of the borrower, these lending syndicates headquarter their operations in the Philippines. For example, one of the key players in these illegal operations does business under the name Kabayan Financing Corporation. This company illegally targets overseas Filipino workers with false, misleading, unlicensed, and deceptive advertisements about loans. The advertisements and lending operations are displayed online to overseas Filipino workers in Taiwan, Hong Kong SAR, Singapore. The loan proceeds are dispersed via electronic transfers. Unfortunately, this lending company and its affiliates do not have the appropriate licenses to operate in Taiwan, Hong Kong SAR, and Singapore. Thus, the syndicates, including but not limited to Kabayan Financing Corporation, violate the laws of numerous countries and jurisdictions from the safety of the Philippines. For example, Kabayan Financing Corporation is documented to be violating the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance, Money Lenders Ordinance, Crimes Ordinance, and anti-money laundering laws in Hong Kong SAR. Despite such illicit activities and numerous indictable (felony) offenses, the Philippines has expressed no interest in even considering to enforce Republic Act No. 9160, as amended, which expressly states that dealing in the proceeds of indictable (felony) offenses committed abroad is unlawful.

In addition to this syndicate, there are other syndicates being run under the names of Overseas Worker Aid Company, DH Mutual Aid, GEMS, OFW Finance Company, Get Help HK OFW, Helping Overseas Filipino Workers, Kabayan International Finance Assistance, NEWS Financial Group, Assistance and Protection Micro Finance Corp, True Help Through Life Corporation, Helping Hands Asia Co, Kasangga Corporation, Gabay Pangkaunlaran Finance Corp, Soft Finance International, Advanced Credit, and many more.

There are even large public Facebook Groups providing support, organization evidence, and offering assistance for the tens of thousands of victims.[2] Despite the victims being easily contactable and the illicit activities of these lenders easily observable, the law enforcement in the Philippines has taken no proactive action to investigate these syndicates and has even acted in ways that discourage victims from filing complaints.


Part 4: Banking Industry Facilitating Money Laundering


The following cases are short summaries of money laundering schemes that relate to and/or derive from money laundering activities being facilitated by financial institutions who are supposed to act as gate-keepers:


(i) China Bank Savings, Et Al


In multiple highly documented instances, it has been recorded that the Philippines Securities and Exchange Commission, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinasm, and Anti-Money Laundering Council, have failed to take any action to combat a illicit banking syndicate involving 123 Finance Corporation and China Bank Savings.

Indeed, 123 Finance Corporation allows staff of China Bank Savings and other financial institutions to operate unlicensed banking branches within the premises of 123 Finance Corporation. 123 Finance Corporation will then forcefully confiscate bank checks from the borrowers and unlawfully maintain custody of these banks checks. Should the borrower seek assistance from law enforcement, contact NGOs, or be unable to make payments on the illegal agency loans granted by 123 Finance Corporation then staff of 123 Finance Corporation will forge information on the bank checks and fabricate a “bounced check” case in order to blackmail borrowers and intimidate them into paying an unlawful civil debt by working with corrupt prosecutors and law enforcement officials who will then arrest and prosecute the borrower, despite the borrower being a victim of universally recognized human trafficking (debt bondage) scheme. On numerous occasions, when borrowers request that China Bank Savings and other financial institutions close the accounts that illicit lenders forced them to open, the managers of China Bank Savings and other financial institutions will inform the borrowers that they do not have control over their own accounts and that the account is controlled by 123 Finance Corporation.


These illicit bank and lender conspiracies are also observed to be occuring with the following banks CTBC Bank (Philippines) Corporation, AllBank (A Thrift Bank), Inc., BDO Unibank, Inc., China Banking Corporation, Citystate Savings Bank, Inc., Bank of the Philippine Islands, and many others. These banks regularly collude, share staff, and operate unlicensed bank branches in coordination with 123 Finance Corporation, Prosperity & Success Lending Investor Corporation; PJH Lending Corporation; OLM Financing Corporation; Zazu Lending Investor Corporation; Global Dominion Financing Inc; Multi-Rich Lending Corporation; First Digital Finance Corporation; Sparkle Base Financing Corporation.

(ii) Pacific Ace Savings Bank, Inc.


Even when facing numerous serious complaints, the Philippines has allowed Pacific Ace Savings Bank, Inc. to commit indictable offenses in Hong Kong SAR and felony offenses in the Philippines by taking no action to stop Pacific Ace Savings Bank, Inc. from operating unlicensed banking branches in Hong Kong SAR. Particularly, Pacific Ace Savings Bank, Inc. and their affiliates operate unlicensed deposit taking facilities at: Unit 2202-03,22/F, Wing On house,71 Des Voeus Road Central, Hong Kong SAR. This location does not have a banking license from the Philippines or Hong Kong SAR and is not authorized to offer deposit taking facilities. As a result, Pacific Ace Savings Bank, Inc. and its affiliates are dealing in the proceeds of indictable offenses being committed in Hong Kong SAR and felony offenses being committed in Hong Kong SAR and the Philippines.


Part 5: Judiciary Failing To Protect Trafficking Victims


(i) Criminal Case Nos - M-MNL-18-1138-2-CR (PEOPLE OF THE PHILIPPINES - versus - MS. CORPUS, ELVIRA CERVERA)


The Philippines has allowed HOYA Lending Investor Corporation (“HOYA”) to fabricate fake “bounced check” cases against victims of human trafficking and debt bondage. HOYA works with complacent prosecutors and known to be favorable judges in order to fabricate these cases by confiscating bank checks, colluding with bank staff, and conspiring with members of the judicial system. Indeed, HOYA has fabricated Criminal Case Nos - M-MNL-18-1138-2-CR (PEOPLE OF THE PHILIPPINES - versus - MS. CORPUS, ELVIRA CERVERA) and the judge, prosecutor, and Public Assistance Office attorney has proceeded with serious prosecution against a victim of human trafficking despite the clearly fictuious and tainted acts of HOYA.

Numerous other lenders have engaged in similarly illicit behavior. Indeed, it is estimated that over 60 victims of human trafficking and debt bondage are arrested and prosecuted each year in the Philippines because the lending companies conspire with agencies and banks - as well as judicial officials - to fabricate these “boucned check” to turn an alleged civil debt into a criminal cases and reinvent debtors prisons which are prohibited pursuant to Article III of the Constitution, which reads: “No person shall be imprisoned for debt or non-payment of a poll tax”.
(ii) M.-MNL020-00-745-SMC
In addition to allowing sham criminal cases to move forward and further damage trafficking victims, the Philippines has allowed numerous sham civil cases to proceed and harass borrowers into making payments to illegal lenders that are wanted for international financial crimes.

For example, CASH4U filed a number of sham cases, including: M.-MNL020-00-745-SMC and at least 3 others. These sham cases are filed by CASH4U despite the fact that CASH4U already assigned the loan and its rights to a company called Niaga Finance Company Limited in Hong Kong SAR. 

However, because the bank accounts of Niaga Finance Company Limited were frozen and the staff arrested, CASH4U has been submitting false, misleading, and incomplete evidence to courts in order to convince them that an illegitimate loan and human trafficking financing operating is legitamate. Despite the fact that the staff involved are wanted by police forces in Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, and other jurisdictions.[3] 

This is a quintessential example that despite all other jurisdictions taking action, the Philippines will still allow international syndicates to exploit the Philippines judicial system to extract crime proceeds from victims of trafficking.
Conclusion
Enclosed are a small number of example documents illustrating the significant concerns and publicly observable illegal acts that the Philippines has tolerated for many years. It is very unfortunate and shameful that the Philippines has not only tolerated these acts but has not provided appropriate assistance to the thousands of OFWs who are victims of these crimes and try to report them each year.
The Philippines must take prompt enforcement action to rid itself of the 100’s of international money laundering and illegal finance schemes that are presently headquartered and operating in the Philippines

Dossiers for many of these schemes are provided in the linked Google Drive directory: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1TzQvzizaL-ku5R78N2h28X8ttPJl0f1p?usp=sharing. Additional documents have already been sent via email and physical mail to the addressees of this letter.
Sincerely Yours,
Filipino Migrant Workers Against Financial Crimes
 of 
________________
[1] https://www.scmp.com/news/hong-kong/law-and-crime/article/3096183/hong-kong-police-bust-loan-shark-syndicate-targeted 
[2] https://www.facebook.com/groups/280326863350619/ 
[3] https://www.scmp.com/news/hong-kong/law-and-crime/article/3096183/hong-kong-police-bust-loan-shark-syndicate-targeted