Full Name: KIMBERLYN CASIPE CANCIO

Address in Hong Kong SAR: RM 15B1, 15/F, 7-9 Hill Road
Shek Tong Tsui, Hong Kong
HKSAR




Date: 14 November 2021


Attn: Managing Directors


True Credit Limited
Unit 347, 3/F Peninsula Centre
67 Mody Road, Tsim Sha Tsui
Kowloon, HKSAR


(By Post Only)


Dear Sir/Madam,


RE:         Demand letter - request for copies of loan documents and information 


True Credit Limited and its Staff and Agents have continuously been coercing me and MARICHU PILI BRIONES into making repayments for an alleged debt, without having furnished any valid proof or legal basis for these demands. I am therefore writing this letter to demand that True Credit Limited and its Shareholders, Staff, Directors, and Affiliated Parties immediately cease and desist from:


1. Contacting third parties, harassing third parties, and disclosing personal data and financial information to third parties;


2. Engaging in all other illicit behavior, including but not limited to money laundering, criminal harassment, criminal intimidation, and other violations of the law.


Furthermore, it is requested that: 

1. True Credit Limited provides copies of any loan agreement and/or all relevant documents in connection with any relationship between myself and your company, affiliates, agents, etc. pursuant to requirements under the Money Lenders Ordinance; 


2. True Credit Limited immediately cease and desist from collecting or seeking to collect any alleged debt from me by contacting me or any third parties without providing a valid loan or other agreement to this effect as required by the Money Lenders Ordinance. Any attempts to collect funds without providing the said agreement will be documented and reported to law enforcement. 


3. True Credit Limited immediately cease and desist in engaging in all other illicit behavior, including but not limited to money laundering, criminal harassment, criminal intimidation, and other violations of the law.


4. True Credit Limited comes into full and immediate compliance with the Money Lenders Ordinance, Money Lenders Regulations and Licensing Conditions for Money Lenders. 


It is reiterated that you are not any third parties in relation to this matter by any means, and any attempt to do so will be recorded and immediately reported to law enforcement. Any attempts to call my employers landline, mobile phone, trespass into residential premises, or engage in illicit collection activities will be reported and True Credit Limited and involved collectors will be held liable for damages caused. True Credit Limited, should provide a copy of any loan and/or consumer agreement as required by the Money Lenders Ordinance.

Nothing herein is or shall be construed as a waiver or any rights or remedies, all of which are expressly reserved.



Sincerely Yours,

KIMBERLYN CANCIO CASIPE

C.c:
Hong Kong Police Force
(By Post Only: Licensing Office, 12th to 13th Floors, Arsenal House, Police Headquarters, No. 1 Arsenal Street, Wan Chai, Hong Kong)