Lutchi Nocolas De Pedro
lutchidepedro123@gmail.com / info@jemhk.org 
+852 6871 6211


6 February 2021


Complaint For Illegal Recruitment, Debt Bondage (Modern Slavery), Illegal Lending, Money Laundering, and Human Trafficking


(Via Post and Electronic Mail)

Presidential Complaint Center
Bahay Ugnayan, J.P. Laurel Street Malacañang,
Manila, The Philippines
pcc@malacanang.gov.ph

C.c: Philippines Overseas Labor Office in Hong Kong SAR, Anti-Money Laundering Council, Securities and Exchange Commission, Philippines Consulate General In Hong Kong, Financial Crime and Law Enforcement Authorities

Dear Sirs/Madams:


        RE: Illicit Activities of 7107 Islands Placement and Promotions Inc, 123 Finance Corporation, China Bank Savings, Inc., Training Center(s), Medical Clinic, Et al.


I am submitting this letter to make a formal request for (i) information; and (ii) assistance concerning suspected illegal activities that have resulted in me:

1. Being a victim of internationally recognized human trafficking (debt bondage/deception);
2. Being a victim of documented activities that appear to violate Republic Act No. 8042, as amended, Republic Act No. 9160, as amended, and other laws; and
3. Suffering greatly financially and emotionally;


I pray and respectfully request that the Presidential Complaint Center promptly forward this letter to the Philippines Consulate General in Hong Kong (“PCG-HK”), the Philippines Overseas Labor Office in Hong Kong (“POLO-HK”), the Department of Labor and Employment (“DOLE”), Philippines Overseas Employment Administration (“POEA”), the Anti-Money Laundering Council (“AMLC”), Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (“TESDA”), the Inter-Agency Council Against Trafficking (“IACAT”), Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (“BSP”), China Bank Savings (“CBS) for substantive responses within 20 days of receiving this letter. I pray that your good office can provide written responses to the inquiries herein and assist me in filing detailed, administrative and penal, complaints against the suspected involved


History


My Philippines employment agency, violated Republic Act No. 8042, as amended by: (i) forcing me to use and pay a specific training center, medical clinic, and lending company; (ii) requiring me to get a loan from 123 Finance Corporation when such loan carries an interest rate exceeding 8% per annum; (iii) Et al.


My Philippines employment agency, 7107 ISLANDS PLACEMENT & PROMOTIONS INC also violated Republic Act No. 9160, as amended, by receiving proceeds and benefits from unlawful activities, as defined by Republic Act No. 9160, as amended. In more detail, 7107 ISLANDS PLACEMENT & PROMOTIONS INC received kickbacks, commissions, and monetary gain from the unlawful acts of  (i) forcing me to use and pay a specific training center, medical clinic, and lending company; (ii) requiring me to get a loan from 123 Finance Corporation when such loan carries an interest rate exceeding 8% per annum; (iii) Et al.


My Hong Kong employment agency, Elise Consultant, as a co-conspirator, facilitator, and benefactor of these illicit activities is also liable for the above unlawful acts, including but not limited to violations of Republic Act No. 8042, as amended, and Republic Act No. 9160, as amended.


123 Finance Corporation, has, among other things, violated Republic Act No. 9160, as amended, by reaping benefits and crime proceeds that directly manifested as a result of violations of Republic Act No. 8042, as amended, By actively benefited from such unlawful activities, 123 Finance Corporation has violated Republic Act No. 9160, as amended. Furthermore, 123 Finance Corporation has violated Republic Act No. 3765 by failing to provide me a loan agreement and has engaged in other illegal activities by asking me to violate the laws of Hong Kong SAR by making payments into a money laundering syndicate that charges interest rates exceeding 60% per annum.


(ii) Request for Assistance

In order to exercise my legal rights, obtain access to justice, and help prevent thousands of other Filipinos from being victims of these schemes, I respectfully request the above mention authorities promptly take action on this complaint, including but not limited to:


1. POLO-HK should suspend Elise Consultant and 107 ISLANDS PLACEMENT & PROMOTIONS INC for its indirect violations and received benefits of numerous unlawful activities committed in the Philippines in contravention to POLO-HK regulations, POEA regulations, anti-money laundering regulations, and appropriate migration processes;

2. POLO-HK, PCG-HK, and the POEA should intake this complaint as both an administrative and criminal complaint to be handled independently, as required by law;

3. SEC and POEA should suspend the license of all agencies and money lenders that conspire for the purpose of granting unlawful loans to prospective overseas foriegn workers and trapping them in situations of debt bondage, modern slavery, etc.

4. The AMLC and BSP should take prompt action to freeze the accounts of 123 Finance Corporation, the training center, medical clinic, and associated entities and staff that are dealing in the proceeds of Republic Act No. 8042, as amended violations, which constitutes money laundering as set forth in Republic Act No. 9160, as amended.


The authorities and CSB should also note that I am legally constrained from making any payments to 123 Finance Corporation because the loan carries an interest rate greater than 60% per year, in violation of Hong Hong SAR’s Money Lenders Ordinance. Therefore, if I pay 123 Finance Corporation I would be violating the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance by making payments relating to an indictable offense.

Sincerely Yours,


Lutchi Nocolas De Pedro