To whom this may concern:

I would like assistance in preparing/organizing/typing answers, statements, and evidence in relation to my agency complaint in accordance with Department of Labor and Employment Administrative Order 87-08.

By way of background, I previously filed a complaint against my employment agency through POLO-HK. After informing the POEA that I am in Hong Kong SAR I have been asked to submit testimony via written interrogatories - therefore I am coming to your organization to seek assistance.


Particularly, I would like assistance for:


1. Typing up answers to the written interrogatories;
2. Preparing a narrative statement as supplemental evidence;
3. Organizing and labeling all exhibits;
4. Preparing a cover letter with a prayer for relief mentioning the following matters:

   1. A refund of all medical fees from the employment agencies due to the fact that Clause 8 of the Standard Employment Contract requires employers to pay for medical fees. Because Philippines law stipulates that employers and agencies are jointly and severally liable, I wish to obtain a full refund of all medical fees directly from the employment agency;

   2. A full refund of all training fees charged. The 2016 POEA Rules and Regulations do not list training as a valid fee chargeable to migrant workers and because my agency required me to pay for training I wish to obtain a full refund of the training fees;

   3. A full refund of all other fees charged to me which are not listed as allowable fees in the 2016 POEA Rules and Regulations or fees which are not supported by actual receipts. For example, if the agency charged me 5,000 PHP for a passport the agency or required to produce a receipt that 5,000 PHP was the actual cost of obtaining a passport - otherwise the agency is liable to provide a full refund;

   4. Administrative penalties against the agency in accordance with the 2016 POEA Rules and Regulations;

   5. Interest, moral, punitive damages, and other relief allowable.


Sincerely Yours,