Samusai Intelligence


SARAH J.C. SEREM
Ambassador
Embassy of the Republic of Kenya 
No. 4, Xi Lui Jie, San Li Tun 
Chaoyang District, Beijing 100600
People’s Republic of China
Via Email To: info@kenyaembassy.cn 
Via Email To: kenrepbj@hotmail.com 
	COUNTER-TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS SECRETARIAT 
Ministry of Labour and Social Protection
State Department for Social Protection
Bishops Road, Social Security House
P.O. Box 40326-00100, Nairobi, Kenya 
Via Email To: ps@socialprotection.go.ke
Via Email To: info@socialprotection.go.ke 
	NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT AUTHORITY
P.O. Box 2570 - 00100
National Employment Building,
Seasons – Kasarani, Nairobi, Kenya
Via Email To: info@nea.go.ke 
	KENYA NATIONAL COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS
1st Floor, CVS Plaza
Lenana Road, P.O. Box 74359-00200
Nairobi, Kenya
Via Email To: haki@knchr.org 
	OFFICE TO MONITOR AND COMBAT TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS
U.S. Department of State
2201 C St., NW, Washington, D.C. 20520
United States of America
Via Email To: TIPOutreach@state.gov 
Via Email To: TIPReport@state.gov 
	U.S. EMBASSY NAIROBI
United Nations Avenue Nairobi
P.O. Box 606 Village Market
00621 Nairobi, Kenya
Via Email To: nairobipas@state.gov


	INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION
UN Complex, Gigiri Block P Level 1
UN Avenue, Nairobi, Kenya
Via Email To: ilokenya@ilo.org 
	INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION FOR MIGRATION
Sri Aurobindo Avenue
Off Mzima Spring Road, Lavington
P.O. Box 55040-00200, Nairobi, Kenya
Via Email To: RONairobiPIU@iom.int 
	

08 May 2021


To Whom It May Concern,


RE: Trafficking in Persons Scheme by Talent (Kenya) Company Limited

We write to bring to your attention a Trafficking in Persons scheme operated by Talent (Kenya) Company Limited (“Talent Kenya”). Talent Kenya is a Hong Kong based employment agency which has been trafficking Kenyan nationals to work as migrant domestic workers in Hong Kong by engaging in fraudulent and deceptive practices.
We first discovered potential illegal activities by Talent Kenya in September of 2018, at which time we notified the relevant Hong Kong authorities including the Hong Kong Police, Customs & Excise Department, and the Employment Agencies Administration. As of June 2021, despite being subject to a number of ongoing criminal and civil proceedings as well as a criminal conviction at the Labour Tribunal in Hong Kong, Talent Kenya continues to operate with impunity and bring victims to Hong Kong without facing any action from relevant authorities in Kenya. In fact, a large portion of the 2019 trafficking-in-persons (“TIPs”), as verified by the Hong Kong government and the International Organization for Migration (“IOM),” were brought here by Talent Kenya. One such victim was recently featured in a story by the Hong Kong Free Press.[1] 


We believe an investigation into potential unlawful activities by Talent Kenya and its directors or associates is warranted, and where appropriate, should be referred to the relevant authorities for prompt remedial and preventive action. 


We have documented numerous potential legal violations committed by Talent Kenya. Our investigations have revealed that Talent Kenya uses misrepresentations in its recruitment process (e.g., exaggerating material terms like wages and the nature of work) and charges excessive agency fees, which are enforced against the domestic workers through debt agreements, salary deductions, and unauthorized withdrawals from the domestic workers’ bank accounts.


While the case details of each domestic worker victim are each unique, Talent Kenya follows a fairly standard modus operandi. Upon arrival in Hong Kong, their domestic workers are provided incorrect information about their legal entitlements pursuant to Hong Kong laws. Specifically, inter alia, the workers are told that they will have no rest days or holidays until they have paid off their debt in full. Talent Kenya staff then sets up bank accounts for the domestic workers at Bank of China, taking custody of debit cards so that debt payments can be automatically deducted from the workers’ accounts. Such activities are dishonest and deceptive and contrary to several Hong Kong laws, inter alia, the Employment Ordinance (Cap. 57), Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455), and Code of Practice for Employment Agencies. We also note that other business practices by Talent Kenya appear to contravene the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486), Immigration Ordinance (Cap. 115), Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622), Trades Descriptions Ordinance (Cap. 362), and Registration of Persons Ordinance (Cap. 177).


As of today, we understand that out of the domestic workers brought to Hong Kong by Talent Kenya, at least one has been identified to be a TIP victim by the Hong Kong government, whilst at least 6 have been identified as TIP victims by IOM. We believe that most victims brought into Hong Kong by Talent Kenya would also be considered TIP victims under Kenyan Law. Talent Kenya’s deceptive and exploitative recruitment practices would amount to trafficking in persons, which is an offence under section 3 of Kenya’s Counter-Trafficking in Persons Act, 2010. Section 3 criminalises the recruitment of another person for the purpose of exploitation through the means of fraud, deception and abuse of power or position of vulnerability. 


We have also been informed that Talent Kenya is now subject to a number of ongoing criminal prosecutions and civil actions as a result of complaints filed by several Kenyan migrant domestic workers. The agency nevertheless continues to exploit Kenyan nationals and operate with impunity. We find it incredibly disheartening and incredulous that an entity that is the direct source of a majority of confirmed TIP cases in Hong Kong for 2019 has been allowed to continue operations and bring in victims from Kenya. 


This has to be rectified post haste, and we hope that the Embassy of the Republic of Kenya and all other relevant authorities, including but not limited to the Counter-Trafficking in Persons Secretariat, the National Employment Authority and the National Commission on Human Rights, would take prompt action to prevent any further victims from being trafficked from Kenya. In view of the serious nature of the allegations herein, and the protracted time frame during which Talent Kenya has been permitted to operate with impunity, we would be grateful for a reply from your office as soon as possible.


If you wish to discuss this matter further, please contact us by email samusaiintelligence@gmail.com. 


Yours Sincerely,


Samusai Intelligence
________________
[1] “Hungry and Indebted: Kenyan Domestic Worker Falls Victim to Forced Labour in Hong Kong | Hong Kong Free Press HKFP.” at: https://hongkongfp.com/2020/04/06/hungry-and-indebted-kenyan-domestic-worker-falls-victim-to-forced-labour-in-hong-kong/