[Name of client]
C/O Flat 210 Kam Ling Court Commercial Centre
532-538 Queen's Road West
Shek Tong Tsui, Hong Kong
HKSAR




[Date]


[Attn: Name of person in charge at moneylender]


[Address of moneylender]


(By Post Only)




Dear Sir/Madam,


RE:         [Name of client]
Demand letter - request to cease and desist from disclosing or threatening to disclose my personal information to unauthorized third parties
        
I write to request [name of moneylender] to cease and desist from disclosing (or threatening to disclose) my personal information to unauthorized third parties. In particular, I refer to the unauthorized disclosures made by your offices on [dates] (see enclosed exhibits).


[Name of moneylender]’s activities in this regard constitute serious breaches of Hong Kong laws and regulations, including but not limited to the following:-


1. Licensing Conditions of Money Lenders License (“Licensing Conditions”) and Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486) (“PDPO”)


   1. Licensing Conditions 6 & 10


Licensing Conditions 6 and 10 require all money lenders to comply with the PDPO. While Licensing Condition 10(b) requires general compliance, Licensing Condition 6 requires money lenders specifically to obtain consent in the collection and use of personal information. By [facts on moneylender’s unauthorized disclosure of personal information to third parties], which contravenes the following provisions of the PDPO, you have breached Licensing Conditions 6 and 10:


* Data Protection Principle (“DPP”) 3 of the PDPO provides that data users are prohibited from using personal information for any purpose which is not or is unrelated to the original purpose for which the information was collected. In the circumstances, information was collected from me in order to facilitate loan repayments. Absent any discernible and lawful justification on why my information has been used in a way that involves [name of third party], you have breached DPP 3. For the same reason, you may have also breached DPP 1 (which requires personal information to be collected for a lawful purpose directly related to a function or activity of the data user).


* Section 64 of the PDPO prescribes the disclosure of personal information without the data subject’s consent if there is an intent to obtain gain or cause loss to the data subject, or the disclosure causes psychological harm to the data subject. By [facts on moneylender’s unauthorized disclosure of personal information to third parties - i.e. employer], you have put my employment at risk. As a migrant domestic worker, I am in Hong Kong for the purpose of gaining and carrying out employment. Even the risk of an adverse impact to my employment entails significant livelihood consequences to me. [Any facts on the client’s heavy dependence on employment - i.e. support family]. Presently, your unlawful conduct has caused me to suffer significant distress, hurt feelings, and loss of dignity. 


* You are also potentially in violation of DPP 4 (which requires data users to take all practicable steps to protect the personal information they hold against unauthorized or accidental access, processing, erasure, loss or use). By [facts on moneylender’s unauthorized disclosure of personal information to third parties], you have risked unauthorized access of my personal information.


Given the private nature of the information in question (i.e. personal information relating to my financial affairs), there is a reasonable expectation of privacy attached to it. By intentionally publishing my personal information to unauthorized third parties, your offices have breached this expectation of privacy.


   2. Licensing Conditions Paragraph 13


Paragraph 13 of the Licensing Conditions provides that where a referee is provided for a loan application, the moneylender shall first: (1) ask the borrower to provide the written consent signed by the referee; and (2) attach the written consent to the loan agreement. As your offices failed to seek my referee [name of referee]’s  written consent, you have also breached Licensing Condition Paragraph 13.


2. Intimidation, blackmail, or harassment


[Facts on moneylender’s behaviour in pursuit of repayment of loans - i.e. threatening whatsapp messages, aggressive personal remarks on borrower’s Facebook, swearing, etc.]


The abovementioned conduct, which has been repetitive, annoying, and distressing to me amounts to harassment. Your behaviour demonstrates that you intended to cause (or at the very least, were reckless as to causing) me anxiety. As mentioned above, as a migrant domestic worker, I am in Hong Kong for the purpose of gaining and carrying out employment. [Any facts on the client’s heavy dependence on employment - i.e. support family]. Even the risk of an adverse impact to my employment entails significant livelihood consequences to me. As a result of your harassment, [negative effects on client’s mental or physical health, etc.].


[I am of the view that your behaviour could also constitute criminal intimidation contrary to the Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 200) as you have threatened [illegal acts such as …] / [to injure my health, property, or reputation], [with intent to alarm] / [to cause me to make repayments on a loan tainted with illegalities, of which I am not obliged to honour] / [to pressure me not to seek remedies for your unlawful behaviour].]


[Further, your behaviour could constitute blackmail contrary to the Theft Ordinance (Cap. 210). You have made unwarranted threats to me for repayment on a loan that you are aware is tainted with illegalities (and by improper enforcement methods). Your menacing behaviours are meant to take advantage of me and cause me loss for your unlawful gains.]


Accordingly, I seek that you immediately cease and desist from disclosing or threatening to disclose my personal information to unauthorized third parties. Please confirm in writing your compliance with the demands stated herein within 7 days, failing which I intend to take further action to pursue this matter.


Sincerely,






[Name of client]
Encl.


C.c:


Office of the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data
(By Post Only; Room 1303, 13/F, Sunlight Tower, 248 Queen’s Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong)


Companies Registry
(By Post Only: 14th Floor, Queensway Government Offices, 66 Queensway, Hong Kong)