16 July 2019


Mr. Sylvestre Bello
Secretary of Department of Labour and Employment
Philippine Government


Ref: Concern About Employment Agencies, Employment Agency Groups That Have Not Signed or Committed to an Agency Code of Conduct


Dear Honorable Mr. Bello,

It is an honor to write to you today. On behalf of Help and Support For HK Domestic Workers, we would like to communicate to the Philippine Government our observations on the ongoing deployment situation of overseas foriegn workers to Hong Kong.

By way of background, our team is comprised of over twenty volunteers from around the world - all of us are committed to ethical and transparent placement systems for migrant workers throughout Asia. We operate a number of social media pages and help groups that receive millions of engagements per month and are therefore in a unique position to evaluate the concerns and problems that overseas foriegn workers have.

After receiving thousands of complaints about unreasonable agency fees, we would like to relay the concerns of Filipino workers who are seeking or have sought deployment to Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR). Specifically, although there is a zero placement fee policy in the Philippines, workers continue to be charged unreasonable and unnecessary fees before and after deployment.


After conducting a survey of over 1,000 domestic workers in Hong Kong, it has been identified that the agencies charging the unreasonable fees are the agencies who have not committed to an agency Code of Conduct.

As we are sure you are aware, on 2 June 2019, the Association of Hong Kong Manpower Agencies (AHKMA) and the Society of Hong Kong-Accredited Recruiters of the Philippines (SHARP) signed and committed to an agency Code of Conduct. Among other things, this Code of Conduct requires:

1. Adherence to the law of the Philippines and Hong Kong of both agency groups;

2. Commitment to not charging the worker any recruitment fee, but only “reasonable” charges for skills training and medical examination;

3. Transparency in the worker’s contract terms and conditions; and

4. Other protections and mechanisms to protect and support the welfare of migrant workers in Hong Kong.


The commitment to a Code of Conduct is a great step forward and will certainly improve the well-being of OFWs being deployed to Hong Kong. AHKMA, SHARP, and Jalilo Dela Torre should be commended for their efforts and devotion towards OFWs in Hong Kong.


Unfortunately, there is still much work to be done. AHKMA and SHARP only represent a fraction of the agencies operating between the Philippines and Hong Kong. Therefore, to continue such success and ensure all migrant workers benefit from an agency Code of Conduct, it is necessary to ensure more agencies and agency associations make a real commitment to a Code of Conduct - not just for show, but so that migrant workers are not burdened by the extortionate fees that are being charged by bad acting agencies in the Philippines and Hong Kong.

To better visualize why an Agency Code of Conduct is so beneficial to migrant workers, we have attached data from a survey of over 1,000 domestic workers. You can see quite clearly that agencies that are not committed to an agency Code of Conduct routinely charge excessive fees that regularly surpass 40,000 PHP or even 60,000 PHP.


Based on this research and our experience talking to hundreds of agency complainants, it is our recommendation that your office take prompt action to:


   1. Require agencies to abide by a Code of Conduct;

   2. Investigate the top 10 agencies by volume and determine the total fees being charged to migrant workers;

   3. Stop agencies from forcing workers to take unnecessary medical tests by way of collusion with medical clinics;

   4. Stop agencies from requiring workers to take unnecessary training when their TESDA certificates are still valid;

   5. Stop agencies from colluding with training centers to charge unreasonable training fees;


Should you have any additional questions, comments or concerns please do not hesitate to contact us further.


In fact, over the past two years we have collected substantial data on agency fees, training fees, placement fees, processing fees, and other information about agency placement operations. We would love the opportunity to discuss how we can collaborate further for the benefit of OFWs in Hong Kong and would be delighted to share our research with you personally.


Help and Support For HK Domestic Workers


HelpSupportForHKDomesticWorkers@protonmail.com