Hong Kong SAR Companies Registry
ATTN: Department for Reporting Breaches of the Companies Ordinance
14th Floor, Queensway Government Offices
66 Queensway, Hong Kong                        
Via Email To: crenq@cr.gov.hk


RE: Suspicious Corporate Records of HONG KONG HOME SERVICES ASSOCIATION LTD
(Company Number: 0382892)


Dear Sirs,

After reading the latest Annual Return filed by HONG KONG HOME SERVICES ASSOCIATION LTD (HKHSA), it is believed that the company, its directors, and the corporate secretary may be involved in a scheme to submit false information to the Companies Registry (CR).

According to the CR, “Making a false statement in any document delivered for registration” is an example of a breach of the Companies Ordinance (CO). Given such, it is alleged that violations of the CO have occurred because known-to-be-false and inaccurate information was submitted as the “Residential Address” for multiple directors of HKHSA.


Based on information and belief, the following directors have provided known-to-be inaccurate information to the CR as it relates to their “Residential Address”. In most cases, the directors do not supply their Residential Address but instead provide an address of an office or business that they control. This may be an attempt to avoid legal liability an/or to avoid being served process at the start of a lawsuit.

For clarity, the following table is provided that shows the suspected violations of the CO.

Director
	Submitted “Residential Address”
	Suspicion For Violation
	CHAN, Man Sau Agnes
	No. 5, 2/F, Block B, Tonic Building, 19 Lam Hing Street, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong
	This is a business / industrial address and is not a residential or living address.

In fact, this address appears to be related or controlled by Lincoln Employment Agency and/or Lynchbright Employment Agency - both of which have offices on the same floor.

It is also unclear why the address provided uses “No. 5, 2/F” when other addresses in the building use the format “Room 201, 2/F”

See Exhibits for more details.
	CHEUNG, Che Ho
	Flat B, 5/F, Fairview Mansion, 51 Paterson Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong.
	This address does not appear to be a residential address and is instead a business address.

This address is listed as one of the operating addresses of VCARE Employment Services Limited.

See Exhibits for more details.
	

For additional clarity, a number of pictures and reference materials are provided to support the finding that the directors of HKHSA have submitted false residential addresses to the CO.

It is requested that the CR open an investigation into this information and confirm whether these are valid residential addresses or not.

Thank you for your time and attention to this matter.
________________


Exhibit 1
	  

  

	Importance: The address listed by Ms. Agnes CHAN is not a valid residential address. Furthermore, the 2nd floor of Tonic Industrial Center is Lincoln Employment Agency (Lincoln Consultancy Services Limited) which is owned and operated by Ms. Agnes CHAN.

Lynch Bright Limited, another employment agency that Ms. Agnes CHAN is involved in is also listed on the 2nd floor. Notice how the format of the address is different from the address submitted in the HKHSA Annual Returns.

Given such, it is likely that the residential address provided to the CR is actually the address of employment agencies owned or operated by Ms. Agnes CHAN and not a real residential address.

Furthermore, it is noted that Lincoln Consultancy Services Limited was also the subject of a CO investigation and similarly submitted information that appeared to be false and was subsequently forced to file amendments which are still pending with the CR. Lynch Bright Limited also has pending documents being submitted to the CR - which based on observations may indicate additional false information submitted to the CR via other entities.
	



Exhibit 2
	  



	Importance: The address listed by Ms. Agnes CHAN is not a valid residential address it is the address of an employment agency known as VCARE Employment Services Limited.

Within the latest Annual Return of VCARE Employment Services Limited numerous directors list their residential and official business address as FLAT B, 5/F., Fairview Mansion, 51 Paterson Street, Causeway Bay, however, it is unlikely that an individual would be able to meet the requirements of a licensed employment agency if the employment agency is operated out of their residential address.